🗂️# N39 00.01 🤖[🦦],🏮


👓🏮🍊🎇# 📽️ Chrontendo Title Sequence ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "UFO" ♪ by ESG


👓🏮🍊{Dr. Sparkle Presents}

👓🏮🍊"Chrontendo 🍋 EPISODE 39"🍌


👓🏮🍊Transcript ⌨️ in English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 from 🍋 Lily Mwangi 🍪 and Nate Lawrence 🏮

👓🏮🍊Index ☰️ + Captions ⏱ 🍋 in English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 from Nate Lawrence 🏮🍌

👓🏮🍊Translated from English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 🍋 to __________ 🏁 by __________ ⬜🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🗨️ Introduction to Chrontendo Episode 39 ✨


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Welcome to "Chrontendo Episode 39". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The holiday season of 1988 continues. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 In fact, this episode covers a mere 11 days from December 10 through December 20. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And well nowadays we always complain about too many video games sequels. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The same is true here. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Five games are sequels to earlier FamiCom releases. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 We also take a look at a few U.S. releases from Data East, MindScape, and Tengan. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Which brings up an interesting point out of the 12 Japanese games this episode none were released in the U.S. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I believe this is actually the first episode where this happens. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 We've also seen fewer and fewer FamiCom Disk System games lately. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But it pages turned this episode as it actually Features no F.D.S. games. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The system is not quite dead yet, but the trickle of releases will slow even further and 1989. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 '89 Dennou Kyuusei Uranai 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 10 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Micronics
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Induction Produce 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 We'll get the weirdest one out of the way first this time at nine denno que se Ron I apparently published by someone called induction produce. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Who are they? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 No idea, but it was developed by none other than the notorious Micronics. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I'm glad they found work after being dumped by Capcom and SNK. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 89 dyno is a hopelessly obscure lease, but it actually has one really awesome thing about the cat drivingly U.F.O.. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Look at that guy! 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 He looks completely insane! 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 What does he have anything at all to do this game? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This is like the greatest random thing I've ever found in any video game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 If my chronic screen This character that I take back everything I've ever said about them; they're geniuses. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 What we're actually doing on this screen is entering in our birth date and gender. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Because this is yet another electronic horoscope cartridge, and it tells you a fortune for the year 1989. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And 'what the hell', you say, 'we just had one of these last episode.'. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Remember this one? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It came out like 10 days before 89 dyno? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 What the hell? 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, 89 dyno bears the name of Jin Goo con, a publishing company that produced a very popular series of fortune telling almanacs. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So the card is just a video game companion to the almanac. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I think he actually came with a printed version of the Mac in the package. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Because of this 89 dinner was [pretty] expensive 9800 again, about twice as much as most video games. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So anyway, you can be your fortune as it pertains to various topic and you can select a particular month, week or even day. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It looks boring. But there is one funny part the love test. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You put in someone's birthdate and then analyze your compatibility with them. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 However, you can select the same gender on this screen as yourself. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So if I enter in the gender as male, the game does this instead. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I'm even a little surprised the game gives you this option. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 At this point, the game pretends to lock up. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The robot is saying that there has been a serious malfunction of some sort. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I think the text below is telling you there's some kind of incorrect input. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 What's that? You say? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh, yeah, right. Of course. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Naturally, you want to see that? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Okay, here you go. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Nice eyeshadow. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So basically, this is just another stupid shovelware release. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But man is that kept flying the U.F.O. cool. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Fighting Road 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 13 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?]
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Toei Animation 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Another thrilling intro here. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's the classic slow looping text scroll. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 At least this time it's live in a bit with a bit of push has been fighting. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 This you see is fighting rode from the animation company. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Most of those gains so far have been tie-ins to existing properties. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But, as far as I know, fighting road is an original concept. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, not original original, but you know. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here's the road itself I assume. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Each stop along the road represents an opponent. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And as you will undoubtedly have gathered by this point, fighting road is a one-on-one Fighting Game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Though it is single plate rolling. There's no vs mode, and no choosable selection of characters or anything interesting really. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's just about the most generic Fighting Game ever created. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The characters are spaceless cybers, wearing mostly vague Eastern martial arts outfits. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Still, it's not bad. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Most Fighting Games this era are, sort of, terrible. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But fighting road could be much worse. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They're your standard punches and kicks. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Combinations. Using the D-Pad and buttons will perform more advancements, like the jumping kick that often doesn't connect or legs sweep, which usually does. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 They're supposed to be some sort of spinning kick, but I couldn't pull it off. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Also, when you take damage, the blue bar starts filling up. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 When it starts flashing, you can in theory fire off a reportedly devastating fireball attack. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 However, I just couldn't seem to figure out how to perform it. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Involves doing a high backflip than hitting the B button, but I guess I never got the timing right. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 You need to Beat-'em-Up each opponent twice. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This isn't a matter of winning two out of three, you need to win two out of two. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And your Health Meter doesn't refill after the first fight but your opponent's does. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh yeah, the grab and throw move is actually [pretty] cool. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 I think the main issue with fighting road is just how boring it is on an aesthetic level. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Besides that, it can be a bit frustrating way certain special mood are so hard to pull off. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Hardcore gaming one-on-one did a big article on three "Street Fighter II" Fighting Games, and also known to the difficulty in consistently performing the special moves. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So I'm not the [only] one who feels this way. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The blue meter is for like an early version of super moves down and later Fighting Games. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's a very cool idea. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And I figure out how to use it I might like the game a bit better. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Kaguya Hime Densetsu 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 16 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Micronics
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Victor Musical Industries 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 For those of you who just watch "Chronturbo Episode Two" you will remember a fantastic game from Victor musical enterprises called the legendary acts. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, here's another one from Vic But this one is not so great. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Cuz buya him a Densetsu (or legend of the Moon Princess), developed by Micronics, it seems. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But wait a sec calm down. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It does have some redeeming qualities. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Thankfully we have an English translation from snark under the name, Princess. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This angel is talking to you when suddenly she gives you a whip and a candle. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh, that's [pretty] kinky for an angel. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And I love the "Castlevania"-esque musical theme that appears here. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The green Jiminy is an old Japanese folktale, also known as takatori Monogatari tale of the wood cutter. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 An old wood cutter who finds a glowing bamboo stalk, so he cuts it open and finds a baby girl inside who grows up to be an unnaturally beautiful but, sort of, mysterious lady. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It eventually turns out that she's from the moon and asked to return. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Which makes me wonder doesn't coin the story? Could we get him a moon Princess, sort of, spoil the ending. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Why would you want to give away the surprise of the end like that? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Imagine if we did that nowadays. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It would make the whole deal of having some kind of plot twist at the end completely pointless. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So anyway, certain elements of this story and other Japanese folk tales were used to Nintendo's Adventure Game for the F.D.S. new sheen on a goshima. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This is a very basic Adventure Game, which makes some bits of other games. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 You start by wandering around, you find an old man who wants matches, and a cabin guarded by some terrifying beast he can't get past. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And in the beginning, that's [pretty] much all there is. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It seems [pretty] clear, you're going to have to end up going back cave at the beginning. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Of the game. Those can be like these weird sections where you need to control your movements using the D-Pad such as here. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You, sort of, move around randomly until you happen to find the girl who is lying in the cave for some reason. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You're always finding unconscious people in these Japanese Adventure Games. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 You have a few innumerable menu options under the exclamation point including kiss. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 If you kiss the girl wake her up and she gives you the matches out of gratitude, I guess. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can now talk to the old guy and explore the dark cabin. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Once you get there, you can light a match and it turns out the creature in the cabin is really not that frightening. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 It should be clear by this point that the Ghoulia Princess is one of those wacky Japanese games it's chock full of anachronisms. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 For example, you'll find a teddy bear and a pair of sunglasses inside the cabin. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 For the most part, the game seems [pretty] simple, though it does have a habit of hiding important objects in completely unremarkable places. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Once you find the axe, you can chop your way to the bamboo forest, but the axe is hidden in just some random tree. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Okay, here we go. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And Geez, this is really starting to look like Micronics game, huh. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Weird little action sequences pop up from time to time. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can die in this game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And unlike some of these games, you can play Grew up if you don't find all the important items. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I encountered a snake inside tried kissing it and I get killed or rather taken to a weird place which turns out to be at C.D. afterLife Bar called the back alley. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 We were supposed to do is use the knife to tack the snake. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The whole sequence is quite silly. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You just wait to the snake is in your line of sight and then throw the knife. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Anyway I ended up with a premature ending to the game later. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It turns out I didn't find the apple at the very beginning of the of the very first screen. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And I was supposed to give the Apple II revive the girl. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Kissing her instead cause me to get a Game Over at this point. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The angel gives me an ugly? Princess because of my misdeeds by kissing a girl or grooming a girl as his translation says. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Could we have printed is kind of a mixed bag. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's funny and entertaining spots but it's also, sort of, terrible at the same time. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Maybe the secret is making sure that my chronic Six to text and static graphic images in games. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Captain Silver 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 16 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Data East
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Tokuma Shoten 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Hey, it's Captain silver. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 We saw this not too long ago in "Chronsega ... 6". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I thought the Master System version was not too bad. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But this FamiCom version, or at least by Tokuma Shoten is a whole nother ball of wax. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 As you may recall, Captain Silver's a rollicking little pirate themed adventure. Where are you? 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Holy cow. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 What happened to those werewolves? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There may ciated has some been some sort of famine and Captain silverland. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Remember how they looked in the Master System game? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Nice, healthy, well dressed werewolves. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It looked like they walked right are john Cocteau's Beauty and the Beast. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 But the changes go far beyond graphics. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The games have Handling was also seriously downgraded. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Your weapon no longer swings in a deadly arc, but instead you stick it straight out in front of you in as thrusting motion. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Also, your character moves even more stiffly than he did in the Master System game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 As a result in moments like this where the apples or pumpkins fall from the trees, you're almost guaranteed to take a hit or to. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 In Sega version, you could be quick and graceful enough to take out any falling apples and dispatch the werewolves that converge on. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Collecting letters to form the words Captain silver has also been dropped, but the shops are still here. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Though the shopkeepers all have new graphics, (one of the very few things that could be considered an upgrade of sorts). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 As mentioned, it is now much harder to avoid enemy attacks and is also take multiple hits, so you know Life Bar instead of one hit deaths. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 While the Master System version can be very difficult at times, I think this one is actually even more frustrating. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 I have no idea who was responsible for this port. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Preassembly Did it East themselves. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Some odd changes have been made such as the bosses. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 At the end of the first level, instead of fighting the witch, you encounter Frankenstein. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Really. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The way confess I find his rubber leg and walking animation [pretty] amusing. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Looks like he's doing some kind of crazy dance. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Though I do wonder what is the story with too much Shoten. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They're a media company; they published magazines and things. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But almost every single FamiCom game they published has been a part of the game by some other company. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They release Capcom titles, about this game, and now with data escape; it's odd. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Anyway, out of the three Captain Silver's (the Arcade, the Master System and the FamiCom) This one is definitely the worst. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Kyuukyoku Harikiri Stadium: '88 Senshuu Shin Data 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 16 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Taito
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Taito 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh, Docker sparkles is getting a little pissed at Taito. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Why? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Because of this game keoki oku Hari Curie stadium '88 subtitled sensu sheen data. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The sheen data should be a tip off. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The game presents a new variation on the intro the first game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 In fact, the intro where the guy gets crushed by a giant Baseball was the most memorable thing about that game. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So we have the same options as first name. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Once again, you start by picking out your team and then your starting lineup. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You didn't get the same two sports announcers. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The game looks just like the first one. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It feels like the same game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 That's because it is the first one. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 As the subtitle says this is new data. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They must have updated the roster or stats or something. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 But check it out. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here's the first game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Same guys. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This looks the same. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh, I see the in a different color, okay? 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Nowadays we complain about E.A. releasing the same Sports Games each year with minimal differences. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But they didn't actually start this. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Hell they waited a few years between Sports Games back then. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Look at one-on-one Basketball Games. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Nope, it was Japanese publishers like Taito. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They were the guy is doing this back in the 1980s. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So since title is basically wasting our time here, we'll move on. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Gradius II 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 16 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Konami
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Konami 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Let's switch it up a bit with an actual good game from Konami. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's been a while since we've seen a really cool Konami game that we can sink our teeth into. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And now here's "Gradius II" a cart, which was (for some reason) never released in the U.S. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now things have changed quite a bit since the original came out in 1985. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 First thing we notice is you can choose from several different configurations for bomb, gun, laser. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I'm gonna go with the ripple laser. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Both the ripple and the regular laser have their own advantages. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The game begins much like the original "Gradius". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Shoot up some waves of basic enemies, pick up a few power-ups (maybe a speed up, missiles, or maybe a better weapon). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then A moment later, things start getting really crazy. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Get passed through a gauntlet of huge red fireballs, or maybe really small stars, and outcome these giant flaming dragon snake things. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The original game which was still [pretty] new, having been released in 1988, featured mind blowing graphics for the time. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Though again, for reasons unknown, it was [only] released in Japan and in Europe under the rather stupid name of "Vulcan Venture". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It was one of the hardest Arcade ships ever. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The difficulty was actually, sort of, detrimental to your enjoyment of the game. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The FamiCom version can't produce Those huge impressive sprites, but still it looks really good. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Maybe the family is lack of processing power improve the game since the home version is a bit more playable than the Arcade Game, which just floods the screen with enemies. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And some slowdown does occur when too many sprites are on the screen at once, which actually helps them spots. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Still, the femoral comm radius two is brutally hard in places. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And like the first game getting killed in certain spots is virtually a Game Over since it strips you of all your power-ups and sends you back to the last checkpoint. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So when playing radius two just don't make two mistakes. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Thankfully, the shield give you a bit of protection. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 One major improvement over the first game is the bosses. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 "Gradius II" has lots of them and they're all different. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The Level 1 boss is a giant Phoenix. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Level 2 starts with this crazy eyeball and tentacle die. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then you immediately go on to the next boss a robot school which made an appearance in salamander. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 He doesn't seem that aggressive, but you'll probably be surprised when he opens up his mouth and fires a giant laser at you for the first time. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Level Three is one of a couple references to the earlier game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And it's, sort of, a super amped up version of the first level of "Gradius". With more enemies and more volcanoes. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Then you get the typical shoot your way out an asteroid field level, except with purple crystals. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 These levels are not too terrible if you're well powered up and have the shield; otherwise you're probably going to get overwhelmed. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Level four marks the return of the classic Moai heads. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then the boss is three giant heads. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 If you have enough weaponry this boss is actually, sort of, simple and boring. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then the next level pulls a classic loop, the boss Rush level - five in a row. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You start with a classic shoot the core guy, he'll probably be a piece of cake. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Then you get the brain with tentacles. eyeballs from salamander a.k.a. lifeforce, the "Gradius" sequel that isn't actually called radius. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I think he was harder in Selamat er, his arms were longer or something. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Then you have another core type boss, this time with these really irritating tentacle arms. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 He's, sort of, like a mutant lump child blast to bosses. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Then we have this guy who, I believe, is also taken directly out of "Salamander". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then the hardest boss in the game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's another core type ship with revolving protective plates, who spits out indestructible missiles. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So you [pretty] much have spent the entire fight constantly weeding in and out between these things. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Needless to say, if you die, you start the whole level over from the very beginning. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then the fifth level continues to pummel the player in submission with these narrow, claustrophobic quarters. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then you get some fast moving levels. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The game throws tons of enemies at you and with little room to move around. It's really easy to get shocked. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 All the guys on the ground make missiles and necessity. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The first boss level actually, sort of, resembles the outside of the base from "Contra". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 As a Buchanan's, you have to shoot out there. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And the second one is a giant spider thing. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Or you have to make sure we're doing the legs very carefully, because it spans the entire screen vertically and sneaks up on you from behind. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Which makes me wonder, why can't the big Viper just turn around? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I mean, after blowing up alien space, he goes right back to Earth. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's not like he's just flying in one direction until he runs out of gas. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 For its final level "Gradius II" goes full salamander. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Everything's made out of brain matter or something. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The level tries to kill you by suddenly surprising with changes in the landscape, including some that block the path completely they're not quick enough. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Then you get the last boss a giant head missing his skin and his skull cap. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And he shoots bubble that yeah. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Definitely one of the creepiest looking video game bosses so far. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So after all this what can we say about radius to two. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Fantastic game, it takes the core gameplay that first and adds more variety surprises and cool stuff.. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Of course, there's still the unforgiving difficulty and the fact that getting killed once practically means Game Over, though you do have unlimited continues. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Still it is one of the better Shoot-'em-Ups on the system. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And it's a real shame that never came out in the U.S. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Maybe the game would have been impossible to reprogram without Konami's custom mapper chip. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Remember, of course, that Japan manufacturers could actually produce their own chips and cartridges, whereas in the U.S. everything was manufactured by Nintendo. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oddly, there was another game called "Gradius II" release for the M.S.X. but it turned out to be a completely different game. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So all in all, it's a fine addition to the economic a bit Canon and worth checking out. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Colonial return in early 1989, or the sequel to whatever their biggest hits in Japan. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 The Triathron 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 16 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?]
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by KAC 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 We'd we've got a trio of racing theme games coming up starting with the triathlete Ron. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh my. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And top it off the graphic in the title screen makes it look like this swimmer has boobs. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, this is from K amusements or KC as they are called. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Develop by who knows. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And it's a game based on the triathlon, a race that combines swimming, biking and running. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here's your character options. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Different head, same body. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 If you look carefully, you'll see one character is from asked Lauria. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Each has their own stats including dusche. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The game begins with the swimming part. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The first event takes place in Chicago, and the game is very much in the classic "Track & Field" button mashing code. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Hit the B button to swim and use the D-Pad to move around. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Swimming will drain your stamina if you constantly swim too fast. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 You have to watch out for hazards, other swimmers the edge of the track, and of course, huge deadly whirlpools because swimming competitions take place in extremely dangerous waters. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 These things will actually suffer and you'll drown. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And the steering controls are weird. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They're based on the swimmers perspective, so they'll be reversed if you're headed towards the bottom of the screen. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Bicycling seems [pretty] harmless. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Button mashing is not much of a problem as steering your bike is. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can't turn smoothly. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Instead of hitting left or right what causes the link point at a 45 degree angle. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So hitting the side of the road while going around curves is [pretty] common. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Running is just button rushing and jumping. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This bridge is filled with bushes and potholes for some reason. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And I don't even know how you actually win a race. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There is no timer displayed while you're racing, so you really have no idea how you're doing until the race is over. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh, I came in first? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 That's a surprise. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 He didn't get a few points to spend on your stats. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The next round takes place Japan, which looks... just like Chicago. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So I'd say triathlon is a completely non-distinguished Sports Game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And it seems highly unlikely that you're going to want to play it for more than a few minutes. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Hopefully you weren't expecting much. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🌟 The N.E.S. in 1988 ✨


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Let's pause for just a second take a look at what was going on in the U.S. at the end of 1988. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Nintendo Entertainment System was enormously successful throughout '88 and continued to be the hot item for kids that Christmas. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Then tend to have America solidify their hold on the minds of young Americans with the creation of the 'Nintendo Power' magazine earlier in the year. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Around this time, the American and Japanese markets are becoming increasingly independent. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 In a number of games come out developed exclusively for the U.S. market, such as Rare's game show titles for GameTek, as well as a few games from Nintendo, Sunsoft, and others. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Still, the floodgates of Western releases not quite opened, so a motley collection of Japanese games were hitting the shelves in late 1988. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 For example, "Super Mario Bros. 2" in October. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 November and December saw two major releases as "Castlevania II: Simon's Quest", and another enormous hit sequel "Zelda II..." the adventures of Linc. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Other Japanese games to come out in November December '88. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Were "Blaster Master" of a warrior, Kemco Superman and even older games like "Dr. Chaos" and fellow. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 I'd say December 1988, is when things started to change. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 From here on out, we're gonna deal with U.S.-[only] games in just about every single episode of 'Chrontendo'. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Rampage 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December [?] 🇺🇸
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Bally Midway | Data East
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Data East 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Okay, folks, we're now going to look at a few of U.S. releases that came out in December 1988, though the exact dates don't seem to have been preserved. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Interestingly, all three reports of Arcade Games that already been around the block a few times. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Data East has already released a handful of U.S.-[only] games so far. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And here's another one rampage, which was in 1988, cutting-edge and its use of destructible environments. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The belly Midway Arcade Game original which came out in 1986 gave the option of up to three players at once. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The objective was simply rack up points causing death and destruction. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You're supposed to smash every building on the screen. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Each level Supposedly took place in another American city. Though every city looked exactly alike. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Rampage was reasonably charming and just, sort of, good old-fashioned, mindless fun. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now the N.E.S. version is for one or two players [only], thus removing the giant Wolf Man Ralph. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Other than that the home version is more or less accurate to the original and the way that it plays. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The screen layouts are very similar, but man has rampid really suffered from the drop in the hardware his graphical powers. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I mean, this is really ugly looking with the bright blue and forest green buildings. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And the monsters have lost a lot of their character. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They all had a bit of personality in the Arcade Games. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here, he mostly have the same blank facial expression. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And you can't really see what the various items are inside the building when you're smashing open windows. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here the tiny graphics used for people and objects that you find when smashing walls make them really hard to distinguish. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Some of the objects will make you lose health when you eat them; Others will make you gain health. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But it's kind of hard to tell what you're actually grabbing. Sometimes. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Getting hit by the Army's weapons or falling off a building will also cause you to lose health. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 If your Life Bar drops down to zero, you revert back to human form and it's Game Over. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Naturally find yourself completely nude once you return normal size, and is slink off the screen with your hand over your private parts. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Amazingly, the belated sequel rampid wrote to or from 1997 basically depicted full frontal nudity when you turn back into human though in tiny little sprite form. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The thing about rampage is it was very much an Arcade Game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's fun to drop a few quarters in it, but the repetitive nature doesn't really make it very fun for home play. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's hard to imagine and when spending hours upon hours playing it, since not much changes as you progress through the game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Really, it's not the best choice for our next release. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Paperboy 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1991 January 30 🇯🇵 // 1988 December [?] 🇺🇸
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Atari Games | Tengen
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Altron 🇯🇵 // Mindscape 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh man! good lord! 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Seriously, someone go get paperweight trophy because it's just one ugliest video game title screen ever. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 They've always wanted two games this episode that reports of Arcade titles from Atari Games published for the N.E.S. by MindScape. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 MindScape being the Northern California computer company that also publish the Computer version to the Mac Adventure Games, such as deja vu and "Shadowgate". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They also publish them in the Computer versions of paper boy, so I assumed they held the rights for the U.S. console releases as well. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They got sucked up into the Learning Company and we're involved in such games as Mario is missing. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Somehow they're still around today. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 In paper Boy, you control a newspaper delivery boy, which is not a very exciting idea for a video game, except that you live in this crazy neighborhood full of angry dog, breakdancers, swarms of bees, the Grim Reaper. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Considering the birds usually happy to liberate at the crack of dawn. The neighborhood is awfully lively for this early in the morning. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Paper boy began life as a 1984 Arcade Game from Atari Games. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Wow, doesn't the title screen look nice here! 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 As I recall, it had a controller shaped like the bicycle handlebars. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The object is to deliver a newspaper to all the subscribers houses, while avoiding obstacles. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And for extra points, you can vandalize the houses of non-subscribers by throwing newspapers at their windows so on. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now, while MindScape did the U.S. version, eventually, years later, this was released in Japan by altron, who seems to specialize in western-developed titles. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They release stuff like disney games and Bratz games nowadays. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's kind of a shame that guys like hold Tron and MindScape are still around yet Atari Games is folded. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 At the individual level, you get a bonus section, which allows you to pick up some extra points by throwing newspapers at targets and whatnot. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now it's really not fair to criticize an Arcade conversion. Not looking as good as the original. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But damn, it doesn't really feel like ting and put that much effort into this. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can barely even recognize some of the obstacles. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And the breakdancers just a guy standing on his head. For example. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Compare paper boy to something like "Gradius II" see just exactly how cheap this looks. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Also, the obstacles can be a bit trickier to avoid than in the Arcade Game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 While playing this, there were a number of times when I thought I was going to slip by a fence or a kid on a skateboard or something, and I ended up colliding with it. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I guess the hit detection seems just a bit off. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Like rampage, pinball is not a bad game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's just one that pill in comparison to the other stuff coming out at this time. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December [?] 🇺🇸
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Atari Games | Tengen
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Mindscape | Tengen 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh no. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This horribly ugly Titles screen belongs to the last us released this episode. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's another Tengen game published by MindScape. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Indiana Jones the Temple of Doom, once again based on Arcade Game. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Orange and purple, the best color scheme. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So what is this screen? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Touch prize to collect. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Touch kid to see prices. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Low and weird. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So how do you start the game? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Pressing the buttons doesn't do anything. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I'll try pressing start. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 No. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, Ben. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well actually, you press Select to start each level (or wave as the game calls them). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So what's going on? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Ah, what happened? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, I see. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Unlike every N.E.S. game in existence, the B button is used for jumping and A is for attacking. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And when you jump, you jump by default in the down direction. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So What in God's name is going on here? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, believe it or not, this is based on a semi-decent Arcade Game from 1985, which was based on the 1984 movie. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now I will confess I like this game back in the day and was never bothered by the impossible MCs or like geometry imposed on the system's catwalks and lava pits. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It had some on-foot levels where you rescued kids, some minecart levels, You drive around real fast on a minecart. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Later there is a showdown on a bridge, you got to swing across the fiery lava pits using your weapon. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It was simple but full of fun and atmosphere. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 By contrast, the home version is just baffling. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Why does Indy huff and puff while he's out of breath when he stops moving? 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh, and the arrow indicates there's a hidden door here. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But we need a bomb to blow up on the wall. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And since the game just started, we have no bombs yet. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here's 10 guns version of the minecart level. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can jump out of the minecart onto the hot pink conveyor belts, but you're still on-foot rescuing children most the time. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's completely different than the Arcade minecart level. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now when you rescue kids, they'll drop items (usually swords, guns or keys). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Which raises the obvious question how do these kids end up being so well armed if you're being held captive and why can't they use their weapons to escape themselves? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Normally guns are [pretty] useful and jailbreak. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Anyway I call this mystery of well on prisoners, the "Metal Slug" enigma. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's not that uncommon in video games. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Anyway, once you have knives you don't they're used for? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Opening doors. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Yes, really. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Also, you find keys which are also used to open doors but different kinds of doors. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Guns can be used for shooting enemies, but also for hitting small schools that reveal hidden grappling points. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And you know how you change weapons from like the whip to the knife or the gun? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, not by using the inventory screen that shows all your weapons; that's for sure. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 No, you press Select and then press a button on the D-Pad. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 You see, unlike the Arcade Game, the controls and rules of Temple of Doom are needlessly complicated and arbitrary. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And for the most part, they just make no sense (like using do open doors). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Or take these secret doors, for example, (used to skip to the next level or wait). 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Sounds useful. But according to the manual quote, "If you use a secret door to skip ahead have not put any slave children on that way, you will be awarded all the math pieces for that way. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 If you have prayed [only] some of the map he says he will not get any of the map pieces for that wave" in quote. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And you need all the map pieces to use in the map room, which is a special wave after wave nine. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You need the map pieces to figure out how to get the wave 10. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So if you already found all the map pieces on a wave, and then you the secret door, do you get all the map pieces or none of them at pieces? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And the whole game is like this. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The manual is 14 pages long and it's full of rules about how you're supposed to use a particular item in a particular spot, or something. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And none of this stuff you can naturally figure out through the game's internal logic. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's like 10 try to make a game more console like with lots of secrets and stuff but failed miserably. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The whole thing is like a huge mess. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Something else that sort of weird is while this was released by MindScape as an official licensed cart tank and AWS released it as an unlicensed cart with different box art. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 That is, sort of, weird in of itself. But the real question is why was Temple of Doom considered to be such a hot commodity that it actually wanted to separate and the guest releases? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well anyway, in my opinion, this is far and away the worst of the three U.S. releases this episode. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Top Rider 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 17 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Human
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Varie 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And a mere one day later, we have top writer from Bari and developed by human. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Human has produced some competent IP unexciting stuff so far, and top writer will definitely not fall into the category of exciting. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Yep, two modes, Touring and Grand Prix. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Touring just consist of one-off races and is [pretty] pointless. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Grand Prix requires you to win a whole bunch of races. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's like a standard career mode. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 We'll try the seaside level. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 That sounds pleasant. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And Whoa, Lord, why is the water so high? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Like the town is going to get in the Gulf in a massive wave of water. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Like kind of scary looking. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So top rocker is a [pretty] kooky game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here's just one minor irritation on the Grand Prix mode when you're in your name, you can't move the cursor up or down [only] left or right. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now come on, How hard would it have been to program and the ability to move your cursor from row to row. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Would make typing in your name go much more quickly. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So top writer greatly resembles and uglier version of Sega is Hang on. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 In fact, the game is, sort of, like a poor man's Arcade Hang on. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You see it came with (if you can believe this) an inflatable motorcycle that you sit on while playing the game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There is even a special handlebar controller that attaches to the inflatable motorcycle. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's an interesting idea to say the least. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 But playing the game is not too special. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You have two gears - low and high. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Is it around other opponents race couple laps. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 I like Racing Games but top rider manages be [pretty] boring. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The backgrounds are decent, I suppose. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But the stripes on the side of the road whizzed by so fast, they just turn into like a pink color. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Also, there's a fuel gauge but you never seem to use up any fuel. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So it gets [pretty] much a mediocre racer with a really unusual peripheral. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Final Fantasy II 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 17 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Square
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Square 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, here we go. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Final Fantasy to the sequel to Square's company saving game released almost exactly a year after the first one. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 One thing square had not yet learned to do was make a decent title screen. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Unlike the first one This was never-released outside of Japan. So instead, we're going to play the Classic translation from dem iforce. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Number two switches gears a bit and pulled out the old Star Wars type plot. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Evil empire versus brave rebel forces, sort of, like "Phantasy Star", though they're the rebel forces just comprise three people in a cat. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And they mostly just format assassination on the head of state. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can choose your characters names here, though all four have official names. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Though when spelled out in Roman characters names are just a little bit too long they actually fit. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This guy's official name is Korea now or something like that. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Varies from version to version. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I'm going to call him free on. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 "Final Fantasy II" skips the standard R.P.G. opening and jumps right into the action. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 With your party being attacked by four powerful Dark Knights. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's one of those impossible to win battles; you will always lose. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then we learned through a cutscene that you were rescued by the deposed Princess with the Kingdom. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Unlike the first "Final Fantasy" your characters are all distinct individuals with recognizable character portraits, and a tiny hint of personality. I suppose. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This approach would return in a much more developed form and "Final Fantasy" for. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 One unique feature is the dialogue system. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Certain words spoken by N.P.C.s need to be remembered by the characters. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And you can speak memorize words back to N.P.C.s. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This will generally trigger them to bold some sort of information about your next goal, and often a new trigger word. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And this is [pretty] much how the plot is advanced. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Once you step out into the village, the games titles and the more typical R.P.G. flow. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Visit shops, fight random battles, tried to talk to the annoying fast moving townspeople. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You also meet important N.P.C.s right beginning such as Paul (the master thief who dresses like a ninja) and Gordon (Lee prince who eventually learned to embrace his destiny). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 As well. Many of the game's graphics are borrowed from "Final Fantasy (I)", it does feature a large and almost completely new set of enemies. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 A few innovations have been introduced in the battles such as the back row. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can move any character from the front row to the back row, (not in battle. But while you're on the main map). 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And the back row is saved from physical damage, but it can [only] use magic or ranged weapons. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And more stats have been introduced, including Magic Points. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And you know, have individual skills taps for every single weapon in the game. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 You see, despite its surface similarity to the first game, [pretty] much everything has been changed. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The mechanics behind your experience and levels are completely different than in any other "Final Fantasy" game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There are no Experience Points or levels. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Instead, your stats slowly increase as he used them. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 He's a lot of physical attacks in your power book. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 If you use a lot of black or white magic, your intelligence or Hole no up. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Magic spells have levels on them as well. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 To increase the level you have to use that magic spell over and over again. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 However, this takes an incredibly long time, since you won't be normally using magic on every single battle. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now there is a rather tedious shortcut in which you can use a magic spell cancel, and then use it again and then repeat. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Ap do this over good hundred times in one battle, the magic spell should easily gain a level. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Likewise, your Hit Points and Magic Points will go up if you take a lot of damage or use a lot of M.P.. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This means the best way to increase your health points is to have party members attack themselves and each other. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 If you win a battle of low health, your max health will increase (sometimes). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 If "Final Fantasy II" doesn't seem like any game in the series, that's because the main game designer was a very evil man called Aki Toshi kawazu. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The crazy illogical and monotonous mechanics introduced into the game. resulted in "Final Fantasy II" being the most hated to the game in the series. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's the classic black sheep in the "Final Fantasy" family. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Bus square wisely decided to take kawazu off "Final Fantasy" and quarantine him in his own series. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Starting in the 1989 "Final Fantasy" legend on the Game Boy, or maka Toshi saga as it's called in Japan. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Kawazu Saga series became legendary for its obscure, illogical, and confusing mechanics. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The thing about "Final Fantasy II" is other than its nutty system for stats and leveling. It's actually an improvement over its predecessor in many ways. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There are a lot of new and creative elements like this town being held under Imperial control. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And you will be discovered if you try to talk to any of the enemy soldiers milling around. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Will also get wiped out very quickly if this happens. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And many, many recurring "Final Fantasy" elements make their first appearance here, such as the airship captain said. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There was a [pretty] huge selection of weapons available including ranged weapons (Namely bows). 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And there are now no classes so anyone can equip any weapon or armor and use any magic. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Also a rotating fourth party members introduced. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 At various point someone will temporarily join your party starting with men or Ningaloo. However you want to transliterate the name. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Was a rather huge selection of magic and actually [pretty] useful early in the game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 For methods of transportation, you'll have a boat and later on airship. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 But to get across the ice Lake you'll need a special sled and. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This is provided by Joseph the second rotating character who has powerful hand to hand combat skills. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 As we see here, many of the typical elemental properties of the first game are still in place. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 For example, healing spells destroy the undead and fire is [pretty] effective against as well. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 As a rule however, magic is somewhat underpowered when it comes to offense. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Even the best magic spell Ultima (and yes, ultimate is introducing this game as well). is not very effective. Except for the last boss. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now perhaps we need a spoiler alert at this point. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The most surprising element in this "Final Fantasy" is the number of party member deaths. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Most people think of "Phantasy Star II" or "Final Fantasy VII" when it comes to characters getting killed. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But Square was definitely at its most bloodthirsty here. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Joseph sacrifices himself to save the rest of the party and gets crushed by a robbery. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 To then even further bump up the pathos. You can return to his village. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can talk to his girlfriend and daughter and break the sad news. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 All told three party members and one N.P.C. get wiped out by the games in. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And while it's not strictly a character, you do come across a dying dragon (or hue) that request to place an egg into a magical spring so it can hatch. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The hue passes away once to accomplish this. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now aside from the weird leveling mechanics, "Final Fantasy II" has some other irritating factors like The fact that dungeons contain many many doors, which sometimes contain valuable or important items. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But more often not, the room is empty, which usually leads to a completely gratuitous fight. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I mean, seriously, there are tons of doors which basically function as traps. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Naturally, enemies can cast an ungodly number of status spells on you. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Poison, blindness, confusions, don't, silence, sleep, instant death, and some new ones like curse and Mini (which shrinks you down to little tiny helpless size). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Furthermore, unlike the first game, each individual potion or item takes up one slot in your rather limited inventory. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So you can't just stock up on eyedrops and Golden meals. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Of course, you have magic spells for healing these things, but you don't have a whole lot of points at first. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And the potions which replenish your magic are outrageously expensive. (At least they are in the beginning of the game when you actually need them). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And the second "Final Fantasy" game is much more linear and tightly clustered. In the first one. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It does resemble the later "Final Fantasy IV" in that sense. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This does what makes sense because instead of wandering around the world looking for the hideout of some arch demon, you're actually in the middle of a war but whenever invading Empire and rebel forces. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Much of the game's first tap revolves around the threat of the Death Star like warship. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Eventually the queen is kidnapped and taken aboard and you'll need to infiltrate the warship to find the Princess and then destroy the engines, which gives you a nifty cutscene. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Sid comes along and helps you escape in his airship. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 From there you will meet a lady pirate Layla joins the party and gives you access to her ship. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh, yeah, and these are one of the more annoying enemies. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Each one casts fire on the entire party. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And there's a separate fire animation for each party member. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So one round of attacks takes forever and they can actually kill weaker members in a couple rounds of the ambush you. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The whole thing takes a very long time. So it's, sort of, like give him a sandwich. When You get ambushed by these things. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The story takes time when we return here. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 After you return to check on the Princess, you are told she's acting strangely and has gone mad. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 When you go to check on her in a room, she hops in the bed and tells pre-nail to come over and get busy. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 He reluctantly agrees. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And just when you think you're going to see an 8-bit porn scene, the Princess turns out to be an imposter and a boss battle ensues. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It would have been interesting to see if this would have made it to the U.S. release, which was translated but then actually canceled by square. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Premiere to make your way to the Empire's arena to battle for the Princesses life. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then you fight a boss, behemoth. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Yep, behemoth makes his debut here. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 After that, you help the rebel army take back the castle of Finn and restore the Princess and Gordon to their thrones. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Then it's off to find the magical city in the Cydia. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now you have to go to Mississauga to advance the plot. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But while you're there, you can purchase the change magic which was your H.P. and M For that of the enemy that you'd cast it on. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This sounds [only] useful in some situations, but it does have a another use. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Casting it on Super weak enemies will instantly lower your H.P. and M.P. down to almost nothing. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 When you win the battle, your maximum health and magic should have increased. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This is the fastest way to raise your health and magic. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And, of course, it keeps with the "Final Fantasy" tradition of breaking the game system. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The [only] other option is just to cast tons and tons of magic spells for no reason and attack yourself a lot. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 While level design at enemies are similar to those in "Final Fantasy (I)" Square does add some new things in the mix. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There are some unique ideas for dungeons like this weird plant filled dungeon. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 As mentioned earlier, a lot of standard "Final Fantasy" enemies appear for the first time such as bombs, Marlboros korells puddings. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Which are annoying because they take almost no damage against physical attacks. So you have to spend lots of Magic Points fighting these guys. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Speaking of odd dungeons at one time, point you get sucked up by Leviathan and end up inside his stomach, kind of like in the movie Pinocchio. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And there's all sorts of folks marooned inside including Richard the dragon. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 He's heavily armored. We can't jump or anything. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So he's not very much like the dragons and later games. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Still dragons are another recurring theme that appears here for the first time. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Longtime "Final Fantasy" fans may wonder what exactly is a dragon anyway? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Some sort of spear wielding heavily armored knight, right? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, actually in real life No; This is what a dragon usually look like. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 They were basically cavalry infantry hybrids and bear no resemblance to their video game counterparts. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Sorry, I don't know why square called their characters to dragons. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 After escaping from Leviathan, things go from bad to worse as the Emperor's tent some sort of magical tornado to this way much of the planet. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Thankfully the hue a gets hatched and can now fly whirlwind, which is another huge dungeon. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Eventually you encounter the main bad guy, the Emperor himself. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 He's guarded by a few nights and a giant Golem. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But he ends up going down [pretty] easily. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 After killing the Emperor, everybody's happy and celebrates with a dance. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Veteran R.P.G. gamers will know something's not quite right. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And it turns out that the Dark Knight is none other than your missing friend Lionheart or Leonhard, as some versions call him. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 He's become the new Emperor. And now you've got to stop him. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Naturally, more tragedy strikes. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Sid dies, so it gets to total of five party members or N.P.C.s that die in the game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But it does give us airship. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Are now free to fly around the world. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And you'll see quite a few cities were completely destroyed by the Whirlwind and tougher monsters are wandering around everywhere. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The whole destroyed world but it's [pretty] similar to the second part of "Final Fantasy VI". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 See what I mean? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Everything in this game was reused and some later game in the series. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 A lot of others Things appeared first here as well. Phoenix downs, the grungy armor elixirs, chocobos. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Even more so than the first game. The sequel, sort of, sets the standard for this series in many ways. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 If you overlook the perverse system for Leveling Up and building your stats, it's actually quite innovative. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 It was remade a few times, just like every other 2D "Final Fantasy" game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 For the PlayStation and Game Boy Advance versions, it was graphically new worked. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Among the other things the -- the overworld and the battle sprites now resembled the characters. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The FamiCom version just borrowed sprites from the first game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So free is the red haired fighter, though his character portraits looks completely different. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The Game Boy Advance version of souls also adds a bunch of additional content. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And I believe they made the game quite a bit easier just like it was "Final Fantasy (I)". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 For example, if you target an enemy that gets killed that round, you will automatically retarget another enemy (not wasting or turn). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Someone away after tracking down line art. It turns out the Emperor has returned from the dead. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And Richard the dry booing dies so that you can escape with line art and bring it back to the Princess where he decides to join you in your fight against the Emperor. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The end game consists of getting the best weapons and armor including the two best swords Excalibur and Max Mooney. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And then the final dungeon is naturally a huge confusing mess full of tough enemies. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 One interesting thing about this game is the characters don't have any classes like in "Final Fantasy (I)" or three. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Nor do they have predefined abilities, like in "Final Fantasy IV" or "Phantasy Star" or "Dragon Quest II". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Nope, they're all [pretty] much blank slates. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And any character can equip any armor or weapon and can learn any spell. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's really up to you how you want to use your characters. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 The game allows you to customize your stance. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 For example, if you want to have strong physical strength, use use a physical tax lot to build up your strength. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And For magic users, you can just cast a lot of magic spells. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 But even magic users can be [pretty] strong. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Maria was in theory my weak magic using character found a really good bow and for a while ended up being the most powerful physical attacker putting the two suppose tanks to shame. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Now there are some caveats, such as the way that the equipment affects your stats. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Equipment that shield raises your defense but decreases your attack. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Equipping heavy weapons will decrease your magic. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But overall, we have an amazing amount of control and freedom over your character. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And there are a ton of magic spells in the game and each one has to be Leveled Up individually, which turned out to be a long and boring procedure (even more so than your traditional J.R.P.G. leveling). 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I cheated while making this video. But if you want to focus on magic based characters, you'll really need a lot of patience. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's probably easier to build up strong physical attacking characters like I did. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 By the way, the final boss (the reanimated demons, zombie version of the Emperor) has super strong physical and magical attacks. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And in theory, he's [pretty] tough. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But there is a little bit of a secret to easily meeting him, namely have to find an equipment both of the blood swords found in the game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Use these and they'll do massive damage to. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The blood swords aren't otherwise very useful. So your first instinct would be to sell them to put our Bible inventory space. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But they're actually worth hanging on to for their use in the last battle. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So in the end analysis, "Final Fantasy II" is really a mixed bag. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The whole crazy screwed up leveling system is annoying as hell and will suck much of the enjoyment out of the game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Even the exploits for building up the characters are incredibly tedious (like having to cast the same magic spell over and over again in the same battle). 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 On the other hand, I'll pass the two is in many ways, much more ambitious than the other J.R.P.G.s we've seen so far. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Tries to employ an actual plot into the game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And in some cases (such as Gordon and Richard dread Dune) we see attempts at an honest-to-God character arc. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The game has temps to show the horrors of war by having entire towns wiped out and having characters permanently die and even shows the effects on their family members. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And I admire "Final Fantasy" too for not having the typical happy, 'the bad guy is dead. They all live happily ever after.' And he. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Reminded about the people who died. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And Lionheart isn't able to be reconciled with his former friends and goes off on his own separate way. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Into a surprisingly dark ending for an 8-bit R.P.G.. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And well, the game can't really overcome its technological limitations. But the time it was finished playing it, I actually did have a certain amount of grudging respect for it. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So "Final Fantasy II", perhaps not as bad as everyone says. It is. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Cycle Race Roadman: Gekisou!! Nihon Isshuu 4000km 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 17 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Advance Communication
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Tokyo Shoseki 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Next up is cycle race roadmap and then a game that features bicycle racing. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Boy that logo looks very much like Namco stand like Sports Games logo. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It was published to ever not by Namco but by Tokyo show Seki. The book publishers. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Was apparently developed by advanced communication, which is not normally a good sign. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 To your country and then team member. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Stance wise it looks like a toss up between Eddie and Robert. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Speed and stamina makes sense. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But what do spirit in tech do? 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Billy looks like a bit of a douchebag. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 According to the title screen, the race is 4000 kilometers (about 2500 miles). 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It's a really long race (longer than the Tour de France). 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I'm not sure if this is based on a real Japanese race. circuit or not. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So cycle race Roman doesn't really look like much, but it's definitely better than the cycling section of triathlon. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 It works very much the same; pound the button to build up speed. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Though you do have to alternate between actively pedaling and coasting; otherwise your power will drop too quickly. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Your other teammates will give you power-up such as refills of your Power Bar. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You also take damage when hitting walls. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I assume perhaps this is where the tech stacks come in. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 When the race ends, you will get some points which you can eventually use to get a better bike. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Also your own personal stats team to increase as well. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Other factors that come into play are the wind as well as the grade of the road. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Going uphill or downhill will make it harder or easier to build up speed. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 As in triathlon steering is a little wonky. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 You can't really smoothly turn. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And you don't hold down on the D-Pad; Nice to tap it to increase the tightness of your turn. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 This takes some getting used to trust me. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So it's definitely not a spectacular game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 But for some reason out of the three Racing Game we have today, this one was the most fun. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There was a bit of variety in the courses and the very slight R.P.G. elements kind of project performing well. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 So I guess good work guys. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Fantasy Zone II: The Teardrop of Opa Opa 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 20 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Sega
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Sunsoft 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Our next game is also a sequel and one we've seen before. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Fantasy Zone to the teardrop of opa opa (as this version is called), Sega is equal to their classic kuuma. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Just like the FamiCom version of "Fantasy Zone", this is published by Sunsoft. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 In "Chronturbo ... 2", we covered the P.C. and fantasies own. I wonder why Satan kept licensing its games to competitor systems. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Well, I have no idea but they're doing it again here. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And just like the FamiCom "Fantasy Zone", this is considerably weaker than the Master System version. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Oh man that music is hard on the ears! 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here's the old masters version released in October '87, covered in "Chronsega ... For". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 A [pretty] decent game, though not hugely different than the first "Fantasy Zone". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Aside from the big downgrade graphics and sound, the demo com release is [pretty] accurate. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 As always, you collected money to buy upgrades to your engine, laser and bombs. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The engine upgrades make it faster. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Laser upgrade are very useful, but last a really short time. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 After about 30 seconds or so they just automatically disappear. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 To that. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Here's the first boss a giant log. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Actually much like the first boss of "Fantasy Zone (I)", now that I think about it. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 There's not really That much more to say about fantasies own to. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Once again that FamiCom gets the worst version of a Sega Game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Keep your eyes peeled for "Space Harrier" a few episodes down the road. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Family Trainer: Fuuun! Takeshi Shiro 2 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1988 December 20 🇯🇵
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?]
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Bandai 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And do you thought the Family Trainer series was dead? Hmm. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Last time we saw one of these was way back in "...Episode 27". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 That was foon Takeshi Shiro released in December 1987. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And now we have foon Takeshi she wrote to. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 This was, of course, based on the insane Japanese game show to catch his castle, in which contestants perform ridiculous stunts that invariably caused them to get knocked down or land in a pool of water. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 At this point, I don't really think I can even handle any more of these damned Family Trainer games. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I mean, look at this. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 And this isn't even the last one. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 And as for Takeshi Kitano Why are there so many games based around him? 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 There are more than one the FamiCom and there are 'Super Mario Bros.' games. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🥇 Episode 39 Wrap Up ✨


🤖🍪🍊🍓 So that's it. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 The last straw to Kashi and Bandai have finally broken me down with this game. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 I can't take any more of this crap. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Forget finishing up in 1988. 🍇


🤖🍪🍊🍓 Word is going to skip ahead some good games. 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 Up next "Chrontendo Episode 183" and "Super Metroid". 🍇

🤖🍪🍊🍓 See you then. 🍇



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎞️ Episode 39 Credits ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Vitamin C" ♪ by Can (Live in Paris 1973)


👓🏮🍊🍓 Thank you for watching 🍋 "Chrontendo 🍋 Episode 39" 🍇🍌


👓🏮🍊Opening Music: 🍋 ♪ "UFO" ♪ by ESG 🍋 🍋 Game Info Screen Music: 🍋 ♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise 🍋 🍋 Ending Credits Music: 🍋 ♪ "Vitamin C" ♪ by Can (Live in Paris, 1972)


👓🏮🍊Produced by 🍋 👨🏻‍🏫 Doctor Sparkle ✨ 🍌


👓🏮🍊🍓 All images and sounds contained in 🍋 this video are copyright their 🍋 respective owners. 🍇🍌


👓🏮🍊🍓 Support 'Chrontendo' on Patreon. 🍇🍋 patreon.com/Chrontendo 🍌










