🗂️# N43 00.01 🤖[🦦],🏮


👓🏮🍊🎇# 📽️ Chrontendo Title Sequence ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "UFO" ♪ by ESG


👓🏮🍊{Dr. Sparkle Presents}

👓🏮🍊"Chrontendo 🍋 EPISODE 43"🍌


👓🏮🍊Transcript ⌨️ in English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 from 🍋 Lily Mwangi 🍪 and Nate Lawrence 🏮

👓🏮🍊Index ☰️ + Captions ⏱ 🍋 in English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 from Nate Lawrence 🏮🍌

👓🏮🍊Translated from English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 🍋 to __________ 🏁 by __________ ⬜🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🗨️ Introduction to Chrontendo Episode 43 ✨


🤖🍊🍓 Hello everyone, Dr. Sparkle here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Welcome to the very, very delayed "...43rd Episode" of 'Chrontendo'. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Today we'll be covering all of March <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And once again, we've gone over the standard <fifteen::15> game per episode limit and have a mind numbing <TWENTY::20> games to get through. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Three of these will be U.S.-[only] releases including two from a brand new U.S. publisher. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I think the key word this episode (other than crap) is going to be Adventure Games, because we have a few of those today. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Let's get started. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 SD Gundam World Gachapon Senshi - Scramble Wars Map Collection 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 03 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Human 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Bandai 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Right out of the gates, it's Bandai with "S.D. Gundam World Gachapon Senshi: Scramble Wars Map Collection". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Maybe this intro looks familiar. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, I hate to break the news to you but this is not a real sequel to the first 'S.D. Gundam Wars' game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Nope, this is just like the title says a map collection - the exact same game just with some new campaigns. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the campaigns here are [pretty] much just maps basically; there's no storyline or anything like that. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So if you played through the entire 'S.D. Gundam' game and want more, I guess give this one a try. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now something else that I should point out is this is actually the very last FamiCom Disk System game from Bandai. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "...Episode <FORTY-THREE::43>" also contains the very last F.D.S. game from Jaleco. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 After this, the [only] other established video game company to keep putting out new games on the F.D.S. is Nintendo. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Know there still will be a handful of games from guys like packet video went to commercial. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Sakigake!! Otokojuku: Shippu Ichi Gou Se 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 03 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Tose 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Bandai 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Bandai's reign of terror finally comes to an end. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Yep! Bandai had been on a real spree in late February, early March. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "...Episode <FORTY-TWO::42>" had five Bandai Games and now there's two already on March <THIRD::3rd>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So that's seven games at a time period of little over two weeks. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That works out to about a game every two days. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After this, Bandai would slow way the hell down on the FamiCom games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In fact, they [only] came out with around seven more games for the entire rest of <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Once again, Bandai has teamed up with Tose to produce this gem "Sakigake!! Otokojuku: Shippu Ichi Gou Se". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Naturally this was based on a manga and anime series. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He originally work is, sort of, acts that kind of parody and concerns a school of absurdly macho and jingoistic Japanese martial arts, manly man type dudes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The animated series aired during <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In the past, I've concluded that Tose does better when dealing with things like Adventure Games that don't require like level design or Combat Systems or collision physics or any of that sort of stuff. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Sakigake!! Otokojuku..." adds more evidence to this theory since it's [pretty] awful. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a very basic minimum. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You encounter enemies one at a time; you can attack them using a punch or a kick. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can also attempt a jumping kick if you want, but that's about it. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If there are any special moves, I couldn't find them. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Most enemies will go down with a single punch or kick butt every once while you'll encounter a slightly different guy takes multiple hits. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And sometimes your attack won't connect for some unknown reason. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I guess has to have the weird collision detection. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And there is some bizarre stuff in this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Like here: I thought this guy was a boss and since he kept getting up after I knocked him down. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I kept fighting him and fighting him slowly getting my health worn down. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And here you can actually see that some of the like punches don't wait him to connect, even though they look like they should. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After a while I had to switch characters, I still couldn't defeat them. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This was looking like the longest boss battle ever, when I suddenly realized I could just exit to the door. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now I'm thinking this wasn't really a boss fight But just that a new enemy would respond infinitely in the exact same spot where the last enemy died. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Was really just fighting a neverending series of the same enemy over and over again without realizing it. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You may have already noticed this, but developers were so lazy despite the fact that there are four playable characters they all use the same in-game Sprite. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The characters all look different when you see their portrait hello world left. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But the sprite you control is always like a generic guy with black hair. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Except during the boss battles, it seems, because he has blond hair like the character. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean the created a different characters right for the scene. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So Why couldn't it be used for the rest of the game? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The boss battle takes place in the big open field and there's some sort of depth to it so the characters can move in front of or behind each other. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But the weird thing is, when you throw a hit, you'll actually hit whatever lines up with your fist horizontally. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So if you were standing slightly in the foreground, compared to the boss, and throw a punch, you'll hit his knees. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So the characters still, sort of, exist in <TWO::2>-D space, even though it's kind of like a <THREE::3>-D setting here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This is actually the trick to meeting this guy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stand below him so that you can like punch him the legs or the crotch, but he can't hit you because this this will go above your head. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After the boss battle, you'll get more of the same damn thing, same background and everything. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Really, shouldn't the game reward you like a second level that's not identical to the first? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I know that later in the game it changes scenery but no way wasn't a pursue this game any further. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So, great job Bandai and Tose marches off to a fantastic start because of you. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Hayauchi Super Igo 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 03 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Home Data 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Namco 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Namco makes its first two appearances today with "Hayauchi Super Igo", built by home data, which was a software company that seemed to specialize and 'Shogi' and Mahjong games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They're still around but now under the name Magical. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Hayauchi Super Igo" is not surprisingly, an ego game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Ego often called just go is an ancient Chinese game, which is also quite popular in Japan. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This is the second go game we've seen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The first was from Bulletproof Software and was supposedly the [only] family game that Nintendo president Hiroshi Yamauchi ever played himself - though, apparently [only] for a few minutes. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Namco his go game seems [pretty] straightforward. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can choose your handicap. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Worse players will start the game with real pieces already on the board. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The object is to surround the other players pieces with their own pieces and capture them. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now go is one of the few Board Games in which a computer cannot defeat an expert human player, at least not yet. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, a computer can easily defeat an incompetent player like myself. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Since I know nothing about ghosts strategy, I will repeatedly get my ass handed to me over and over again. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Oh, well. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 At least it still looks like a [pretty] decent little game. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Jesus: Dreadful Bio Monster 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 17 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Chunsoft | Enix 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by King Records 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright here we go! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 One of the games I've been looking forward to for a while "Jesus kill food no bio monster" (or 'Jesus: Dreadful Bio Monster' as it's sometimes called). 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And you see this is one of those games where you have the title and you go 'Whoa, what the hell is that game about?'. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Come on, Jesus dreadful bio monster! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 How can that be a real game? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And it's by Enix? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Really? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Right off the bat the music sounds familiar. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That's because it's from our main man Koichi Sugiyama, known for his 'Dragon Quest' music. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Well, having played the game, I'm [pretty] happy to inform you that it's not half as weird or as interesting as it sounds. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In fact, it's a [pretty] typical Sci-Fi anime infused Adventure Game, though one with better than average production values. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After the cool little intro, the game starts off in a loopy way with a video game playing nerd eating a hamburger. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Fortunately, we have an English translation done or the name Nia hack perhaps. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a solid translation though the English had to be greatly compressed and abbreviated and so on in order to make it squeezed to the space occupied by the Japanese characters. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The game first appeared under the name of "Jesus" on Japanese computers in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SEVEN::1987>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here's the P.C.-88 version, which naturally has more detailed artwork on the FamiCom version. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The computer 'Jesus' games tend to look much more anime like, and most of the names in the credits are not familiar to me at least aside from Sugiyama and the fellow who did the art, Shintaro majima, who later became the main dude in our pay Piazza, mostly known for porting various versions of the 'Dragon Quest' games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They did the D.S. ports, for example. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Different sources state the developer as Jesus as being either Enix or Chunsoft. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Those two companies of course, were deeply connected, but I don't know which company the staff was actually working for. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Well, first of all, FamiCom "Jesus..." seems to be a very accurate port. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This starts off looking quite interesting. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 When you talk to the commander, he have some dialogue options like ask, praise, and flatter. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So right away think wow, this is like some Bioware type game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Maybe you can try different approaches to talk to N.P.C.s and open up branching dialogue paths and... well actually, no, it's a red herring. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is the [only] time those options appear and they do absolutely nothing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Jesus kill for no bio monster" is an extremely linear game with exactly one correct approach to everything. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Your first task is to pass out ID cards. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Sounds simple. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There are three rooms to enter. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Talk to the folks and give them their cards. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 One of them is your musician, girlfriend. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The manual states she's a <seventeen::17>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And she'll play this totally awesome tune that she composed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Yeah, that is one sick jam. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So how did teenage keyboard player in but a military space mission. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is Japan, I suppose. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You also meet her weird little robot pet thing Fuji, who ends up being an N.P.C. you deal with the most. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Okay, so here's where the trouble starts. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You enter all these rooms, give everyone an ID card, head back to the commander. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then tell them you're not done yet. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, what did I do? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So try heading back to the rooms. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Oh, and now there's a new guy in the rec room. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Okay, so you talk to him and give him the card and then you go back and. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You still say you're not done yet. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Okay, so we head back to the rooms, but there's no one knew to be found. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This seems to be a dead end. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the game gives you absolutely no clues as to why you're not done handing out the cards. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Doesn't even tell you how many cards you have left. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You're just apparently not done somehow. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You see after you've given the ship's doctor her ID card it turns out you have to use the look command on her and then the talk command and multiple times. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 After you've used these commands the requisite number of times, so suddenly They open up say she's troubled need your help with something. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This little plot thread goes absolutely nowhere but it does open up the last room so you can get away the last card. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But this is really quite strange. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Your character certainly knows who he supposed to give the cards to and where their rooms are. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But you, the player, don't know this. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You're a character could just go pass out the cards them at any time, but their existence is not even revealed to you the player until you just happen to stumble upon the correct and unrelated dialogue option. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The game is divided into three parts. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The first is the card passing out part which takes place on Jesus, a space station orbiting Earth. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Yes, Jesus is the name of the Space Station. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Who knows why, but after this beginning art you leave and then never come back for the entire rest of the game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The plot involves an expedition to Halley's Comet. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The actual main game itself kicks into gear when some sort of trouble occurs on the ship that's exploring the comet. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You choose to investigate And then the second part involves you exploring this ship, which is actually called the comet confusingly. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Once you're aboard you run into Fauji and find the ship is empty and quite dead. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You infosheet spend quite a lot of time walking around looking at floors, ceilings, walls, control panels, and so on. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You find some obviously important things like the body to prove embers but most of the ships seems [pretty] unremarkable. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, despite how unremarkable everything is, you still have to examine every single last little thing this game, often multiple times in order to find the initial triggers that cause the next important event to occur. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There are several floors on the ship and each floor has several rooms that are connected by a circular walkway. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You move from room to room by controlling your character directly rather than using a menu. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 These sections are [pretty] unique, but they're [only] used at this one point in the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Everything else is completely menu-based. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Some parts actually makes sense like finding someone's key card which can then be used to open something or use computer. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Other parts are more frustrating. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You see a lot of machines and devices that have options to look at them or use them. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But you're told you shouldn't touch it in the <NINETY-PERCENT::90%> of the time. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Or in one segment, you'll find some weapons, but you can [only] take one. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Which one. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Will you need to guess? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't recall getting any, sort of, hints, but it turns out to be the freeze ray. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here's one part where the game starts getting really annoying. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 At this time, you've already encountered the alien a few times and you know it's sensitive to cold. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Your freeze gun, however, is out of energy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now, previously, you noticed a valve that controls some sort of liquid oxygen coolant. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Obviously, this will be used to freeze the alien. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But when you try to use it, Fuji tells you it's too dangerous. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Really too dangerous, more dangerous than the alien who's going to rip your face off any second. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So you do the usual stuff look at the valve, look at your surroundings, try the valve again, bolje still freaks out and tells you not turn it on? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, how do you make yourself turn on the damn valve and freeze the alien? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Me Well, here's a solution. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Despite already being told the gun it's out of energy and useless and there's no logical reason to try it again. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Trying to use the gun a third time will suddenly change the use valve option. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And finally let you turn on the damn valve and phrase the alien like you've been trying to do. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And then after you've done this, the alien is injured in a piece drops off. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Hmm, that sounds [pretty] important, right? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Let's go pick up that piece of alien. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Nope, the game refuses to let you pick it up... yet. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Instead of you to walk the cockpit contact the other ship and tell them what happened. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Then someone asked you to bring back the piece of the alien. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So you've got to trek all the way back to the freezer room and now it'll let you pick it up. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And this is one distinguishing characteristic of these kind of games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They often don't let you do things logically. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Instead, they make you find the specific order of the game wants you to do them in. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There's a brief section where you need to guess which ordered press a series of buttons and then you head back to the other ship... where it again turns out there's an alien loose and once again people get killed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This pink haired lady gets a rather dramatic dying scene. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now despite the alien being really scary looking, it apparently kills people by sticking something into their finger with a little tiny needle. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The creature does this to get the DNA which then uses to mutate. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So it kind of adds a bit of like John Carpenter's "The Thing" into Ridley Scott's "Alien". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I'm not sure how successful this game was, but it did receive the computer [only] sequel "Jesus <TWO::2>". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here's the P.C.-98 version. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This intro really shows up the inspiration to the movie "Alien". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Much but not all the original staff remains. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The sequel is once again Adventure Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But due to it somewhat later vintage it has much more detailed graphics. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Anyway, the last part of the game is much like the second part - walking around looking at stuff for no apparent reason. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Once you've looked at everything the game wants you to look at you'll trigger the next event. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 More people die - off screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also a tape playing or girlfriend's keyboard tune mysteriously gets smashed. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Before too long you, their girlfriend, and the captain are the [only] ones left. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You get to see the alien and all HR bigger inspired glory. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then the captain bravely sacrifices himself. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You also have a hilariously protracted scene in which you debate whether you should try to help the captain. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I guess the alien kills its victims very, very slowly. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Finally, we reached the end. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The alien has obtained human intelligence and speech and is going to head to Earth with all alien buddies and take over the Earth. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The aliens are hiding out in Halley's comet. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 By the way, that makes the second game we've seen which aliens invade Earth via Halley's comet. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Halley Wars" was the other one. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 At this point, you in Fauji have to do some detective work in order to determine the alien's secret weakness. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This takes the form of quiz. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Fo g asked you various questions about the game so far. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And if you got any of the questions wrong, even if you came to the correct conclusion he makes you start all over again. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now the answer which has been lately telegraph throughout the game is that your girlfriend's musical composition will kill the alien. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So yeah, you've got to pull out her keyboard and play her tune, which is so terrible, it can actually annihilate living creatures. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is done through another guessing game in which you need to hit the right keys on the keyboard. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 We'll all assume the developers actually thought the song was like so pure hearted, and that it actually destroyed the creature through like the power of love or something like that, rather than just being a really terrible deadly song. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then things get ultra corny when it turns out that all the spirits of your dead friend is still somehow live on inside the alien. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And they all take turns giving you words of encouragement. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So "Jesus Guilfoyle, no bio monster" is, sort of, a disappointing game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, it's a [pretty] standard Sci-Fi Adventure Game in many ways. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's more tightly plotted, has better built the characters, in better art than most others games like this we've seen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It looks [pretty] good in comparison to Square's, FamiCom Adventure Games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But it doesn't have as much character as, say, Hudson's "Princess tomato". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And it does suffer from all those irritating issues that other games in the genre have. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And I'm not even sure why it's called "Jesus". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, the space station Jesus barely even figures into the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And once you leave it at the beginning, we never come back. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And Whose idea was it in the space station, Jesus anyway? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The end is [pretty] funny now, everyone, everyone but then is dead, and they have the ship to ultimate selves. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You and your girlfriend take the opportunity to get busy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But you save the world so I guess you deserve it. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Rolling Thunder 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 17 🇯🇵 // 1989 [?] [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Namco | Nova | Arc Systems 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Namco 🇯🇵 // Tengen 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here's another one from Namco. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This time it's one that you've heard of "Rolling Thunder" aboard of Namco most influential Arcade Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Seems this port was handled by Nova. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright, so this is story one area one. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The game is divided into quote unquote stories. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I'm not sure if story means story like floors in a building or story as in telling a story. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But "Rolling Thunder" is one of those walk from left to right and shoot things games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But it's virtually the prototype for this sort of game came out in arcades back in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SIX::1986>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 One thing you'll notice is the Arcade Game has, like, a Life Bar of sorts. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This has been changed a bit for the home version. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The original was a cool, fun little game, and would go on to influence such games as Sega "Shinobi". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Well, certainly the home version has taken a bit of Pitt graphics wise. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Your character looks really tall and thin. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And that's not just because playing it in the unstressed resolution. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He is [pretty] well animated whoever and has decent animations for jumping, ducking, and so on. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The get bad guys are mostly in the form of these hooded dudes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Almost everyone at first even looking like K.K.K. members. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But I think they're more inspired by villains from like the older Pope Action Spy genre. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Depending on their color, they may be armed with guns and may take multiple hits to kill. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You will occasionally find a mark door that leads to room pinning ammo. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There are two types pistol or machine gun ammo; both rather limited. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here I just got the machine gun ammo listed as mg BLT. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The levels are mostly horizontal with a bit of vertical movement from time to time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There's not really much atmosphere; everything is [pretty] nondescript looking. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You know, it's like, sort of, typical secret base type stuff. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For some reason there are a bunch of tires in here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Oh yeah, this right here is one of the most irritating occurrences The game where you get into a firefight with a guy hiding behind a crate or something. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have to, sort of, stick your head up and fire around then duck down to avoid getting shot. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's almost impossible to hit the guy since he does the exact same thing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He ducks down when you shoot at him. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This can waste a lot of annalen time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And "Rolling Thunder" does like a timer counting down. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If it runs out Yep, start again. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 With the guys behind the crates, you, sort of, have to memorize where they are so you can start walking towards him while firing so you can hopefully hit him as soon as he appears on the edge of the screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And sometimes these guys will even start shooting at you while they're still asked me and naturally they can shoot you from off screen but you can't shoot them. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 One of the more colorful parts of "Rolling Thunder" are the between level cutscenes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 These show the bad guys while I'm watching your kidnapped girlfriend on a big video monitor. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Usually while doing some sort of like crazy dances. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 No girlfriend apparel thing was [pretty] common in video games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But "Rolling Thunder"s cutscenes are [pretty] creepy as they look like some sort of sexual is just about ready to occur or has just occurred. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I guess you can file "Rolling Thunder" next two minutes beach in this department. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The home version is a bit harder in some ways than the Arcade Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 First of all your Life Bars [only] two docks. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And, as far as I know, it can never be expanded. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, the life part [only] applies being punched by enemy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you were shot, you will always die regardless of whether you have full life or not. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Enemies start getting a bit more aggressive as you progress. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You'll encounter guys throwing bombs that they will both throw horizontally and vertically add to. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 One of your major weaknesses as you cannot fire a gun while jumping. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In order to dispatch enemies on a level above you, you'll need to climb up to their level. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 However, a common occurrence is that while jumping up a level, the enemy will suddenly turn around and shoot you while you're still in midair completely defenseless. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also, enemies tend to shoot you the setup may appear at the edge of the screen or even drop down from nowhere onto your head. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So once again memorization is key. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Eventually, you'll start facing some non-human enemies like weird jumping monkey things, and attack dogs and flying features looks like giant bats with duck feet. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Even weirder are these guys that look kinda like the Human Torch and who explode into deadly fragments when killed. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And quite frankly, it our hero was as agile as someone like Simon Belmont, then this wouldn't be so bad. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But the fact that you cannot attack unless both feet are firmly planted on the ground makes flying enemies much trickier. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Also, the jumping controls are released If. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You cannot control your jump at all, or even vary the length of your jump. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's easy to overshoot when jumping platform platform. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Once you reach the end of story one it's filled the bad guy has some green alien looking dude. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's not really clear from playing the game, but "Rolling Thunder" supposedly has a Science-Fiction theme, or at least the arcane version did. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Overall "Rolling Thunder" is not a bad game though the old-fashioned by <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989> standards, or at least compared to "Shinobi". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In "Shinobi", you had multiple types of attacks, as well as ninja magic. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And "Rolling Thunder", you [only] have your gun. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And a number of small frustrations add them to an overall experience that sort of unpleasant. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Like here, for example. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 How do you get past this guy. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 He takes multiple hits to kill and the first hit will push him back into like this choke point. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And once he's standing here, he's one level below you so you cannot shoot him even if you duck down. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then the force he's throwing a constant stream of grenades to create a seemingly impassable barrier. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Is it possible to slip between the grenades? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I tried, but I sure couldn't. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So it seems like you're kind of stuck here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now it turns out you can backtrack a bit and make him disappear and then go forward again. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But was that really what the developers were intending? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Or is that just a weird bug them? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Anyway, "Rolling Thunder" did receive a U.S. release. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Bikes other Namco games was published by Tengen, who, as you might recall, had very strong ties to Namco. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It was an unlicensed game, of course, but it's exactly the same as the Japanese version, as far as I know. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Bakushou!! Jinsei Gekijou 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 17 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?] 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Taito 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The first of two title games today is "Bakushou!! Jinsei Gekijou". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That's Bakushou with two exclamation points mind you. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The attentive viewers out there might be thinking 'hmm Jin Se Why is this another video game based on the classic Board Game the game of life?'. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Why you are correct. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now this is for up to four players. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't know who actually developed "backhoe show" but man is that some nasty music and the graphics aren't too great either. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It works exactly like you think it would. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Each person take the turn rolling the dice, and then you move around on the board. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In terms of interactivity that's really about it right there - just pressing the dice roll button. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Well, there are a few other moments later in the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Most of the beginning of the game is dedicated to school. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You start off in Elementary School. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You get some cash as a gift upon entering school, and the first player who gets out of school gets twice as much cash. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 At various points in the game there are bonuses for being the first to arrive at a certain point on the board. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And there are, unsurprisingly, R.P.G. elements shoehorned into this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have stats such as intelligence, luck, and strength. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Landing on certain spaces will trigger events that will cause a stat to gain or lose points. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And these stats are actually important a little bit later. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 High strength can get you a pro Baseball career and high intelligence Will you go to college and get a better job later. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Certain spaces will trigger a minigame of some sort. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Naturally title throws an "Arkanoid" minigame. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you do really well, you'll get a luck bonus. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 A little later there's like this weird Shooting Game where you can win additional intelligence. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Look, the FamiCom makes an appearance here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now the pacing on this seems [pretty] deliberate compared to similar games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As I mentioned, you start off in Elementary School, and then a bit later you go to middle school, and then further down the board High School. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And this can take a while, especially with four players. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After school there are quite a few career options and life choices available. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 One career is going into the Aqua. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Bronco show looks [pretty] involved, and I'm not sure how long it would take play a full game, but probably quite a while. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now there are some things I don't like other than, as mentioned, the horrible music and graphics. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But one thing is you can't see where the other players are on the board while it's your turn. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's not really obvious where you are in relation to everybody else, unless you just happen to remember where all the other players left off. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also, the hand rolling the dice looks, sort of, inappropriate. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So it's not the slickest looking 'Gen say' game ever, but it seems [pretty] decent. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 World Games 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Software Creations | Rare 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Milton Bradley 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Let's take a moment to check out some U.S. releases. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 March <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>, sees the debut N.E.S. game from Milton Bradley, the enormous and long live toy game company. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "World Games" was originally published by epics. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But here we have that distinctive screen found in most Rare games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Yep, this was once again ported over by Rare. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Rather weird coincidence the previous game was based on "the game of life", which was Milton Bradley's first commercially released game from <EIGHTEEN-SIXTY::1860>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They went on become one of the biggest Board Game manufacturers and by the late <SEVENTIES::'70s> were becoming involved in electronic games, such as "Simon" which was an electronic memorization game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The inner the video game filled in <NINETEEN-SEVENTY-NINE::1979>, with the rather obscure Microvision, which was the first cartridge-based handheld game system, and also the vetrix the short-lived vector graphics console. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So with [only] natural they would get into the Nintendo Entertainment System action, though they never become a major player in the world of video games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 By <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>, they had been purchased by Hasbro, who, of course, later purchased Atari Corporation. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is the other half of Atari, not the guys behind "tangut". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 By another weird coincidence, in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>, Atari would release their handheld console The Lynx, which was designed by epics, the same guys who published the original computer No "World Games". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So it's a very small incestuous video game world here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Any way world game is was originally for the Commodore <SIXTY-FOUR::64> in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SIX::1986>, a sequel to "Summer Games" and "Winter Games". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Though I don't think it was quite as successful as the earlier titles in the series. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The events featured are, like, a weird hodgepodge of such sports as weightlifting, log rolling, and bull riding. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The game is probably inspired by the real life "World Games" - sort of an alternative Olympics for sports which are not in the real Olympics. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Coincidentally, the World Games began in the Bay Area - same part of the World War Epyx was based in Atari was based for that matter. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Just like the "Winter Games" "World Games" is there is a sports competitions and just like "Winter Games", and similar titles like "Skate or Die" the main challenge is to understand how to control a game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 To perform well and each event you have to enter in our came series of button presses. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In weightlifting, use the the up and down buttons in succession, but the timing has to be just right. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Is almost like a rhythm game but lacking the visual or audio cues that you normally have in rhythm games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Literally "World Games" is not the prettiest video game we've ever seen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It is her far better looking than "Winter Games", which was ported by a Japanese contract developer and released by Acclaim in the U.S. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Rare was a [pretty] eccentric company and the results are often sketchy but they seem to have a handle on the material here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If "Winter Games" rated a one on a scale of <one::1> to <ten::10> I guess "World Games" is a solid <five::5>. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Marble Madness 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Atari | Rare 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Milton Bradley 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Game <NUMBER-TWO::#2> from Milton Bradley is another court, this time of an Arcade Game - "Marble Madness" copyrighted to tendon that is to Atari Games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Not sure why Atari licenses to Milton Bradley of all people? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I don't know if "Marble Madness" is the, sort of, game that kids like playing nowadays. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The object is simply to maneuver a marble through a level within a certain time limit. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a [pretty] short game - [only] six levels. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you are well skilled, you could finish it in a few minutes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The fact there is no plot characters, special powers, or anything really makes it simple by today's standards. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 They'll all confess I love the Arcade version of "Marvel madness" back in the day. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Originally released in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-FOUR::1984>, it seemed unlike anything else in our case at the time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's isometric three levels made it stick out a bit and this game had really good Physics for a <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-FOUR::1984> game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The marble has weight and he must deal with momentum, contact with enemies or walls. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It was the first game I can recall where it felt like you were controlling an actual physical object in real space. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The game was designed by Mark Cerny; it was his first game I believe. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Later of course, he went on to produce "Crash Bandicoot", "Spyro the Dragon", and now he does game consulting mostly for Naughty Dog. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This home version was developed by (who else?) Rare, which makes sense considering the whole isometric graphics thing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It looks [pretty] good but any port of "Marble Madness" will be hampered by the controls. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The game originally used to trackball which is a perfectly logical choice. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The marble and the trackball are, sort of, shaped the same and it feels almost like you're directly controlling the marble by moving the trackball. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Using a D-Pad or some kind of other controller it just isn't the same. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I found the marble be [pretty] hard to control and fell off of ledges along. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Parts that were not that difficult on the original game like navigating pads with lots of turns and twists are very tricky using the D-Pad. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So "Marble Madness" is a commendable effort but definitely fall short. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Still, it's worth checking out if you want try playing the unusual classic. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 John Elway's Quarterback 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Leland | Rare 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Tradewest 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Okay, we have just one more U.S. game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This one is "John Elway's Quarterback" published by Tradewest. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And as the title screen states is ported to the N.E.S. by Rare. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So for Western games Rare is three for three today. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I'm not sure if you remember who Tradewest is, but they were the same guys who released "Double Dragon" in the U.S. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They had a certain amount of success in the videogame field then got snatched up by another company and disappeared. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The game has its origins and a series of games from Leland. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here's quarterback from <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SEVEN::1987>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's essentially the same game, a [pretty] typical Arcade Football Game of the <EIGHTIES::'80s>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 At some point, Leland signed a deal with John Elway of the Broncos, who was one of the all time great quarterbacks and one of the biggest figures in sports in the mid-'80s. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "John Elway's Team Quarterback", another version of the same game essentially, hit arcades in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Supposedly Leland released a number of variations on this game in Arcade back then, and there were also versions released on computers around the same time. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, it's not surprising that Tradewest released the N.E.S. version since Tradewest and Leland were closely related companies. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now, as you may have seen, other than John Elway, this is a [pretty] generic looking Football Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He were given teams identified [only] by the city names and I'm not really aware of any sort of individual stats for the teams or players. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now we just recently saw a "Tecmo Bowl" and this game suffers quite a bit by comparison. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The graphics are [pretty] dull; there is almost no music. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It controls, sort of, like "Tecmo Bowl"; you choose a place. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 While controlling the quarterback to use the D-Pad to move around the cursor and select where you want to throw the ball to. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, in order to actually throw the ball you hit down on the D-Pad. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It seems like they just could have used one of the buttons to throw the ball instead; that would have made more sense. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 We'll all admit Rare did a [pretty] good job squeezing <eighteen::18> players on the screen at once, at least from a purely technical perspective. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Though, the action gets [pretty] confusing and the players can all, sort of, coagulate into one undifferentiated blob during plays. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Despite the name on the box, John Elway doesn't seem to make any appearance whatsoever in the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So it's not really that bad but [pretty] unnecessary after "Tecmo Bowl". 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Hikari Genji - Roller Panic 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 20 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?] 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Pony Canyon 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Okay, that's it for U.S.-[only] games today. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We are now at March <TWENTIETH::20th> and we've got another F.D.S. game this time from Pony Canyon. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Oh boy! This looks promising "Hikari Genji - Roller Panic". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Yeah, you heard that right "...Roller Panic". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Note the copyright to Johnny and Associates there. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Current game G" is a very minor game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's an extremely simple Adventure Game based on a Japanese boy band. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So I guess this game is supposed to be aimed to girls. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Need to put your info here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Naturally, blood type is among the things we'll have to select. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now pick a dude from the band! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Hmm, they all look more or less the same. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Different hair I suppose. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now he Carl gingy were a [pretty] darn popular band for a period of time in the late <EIGHTIES::'80s> and early <NINETIES::'90s>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 At one point they held the top three positions on the Japanese symbols charged simultaneously. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They were the product of Gianni associates, a Music talent agents did it firstly held a monopoly on Japanese boy bands since the <SEVENTIES::'70s>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They were actually run by a guy named Johnny Kitagawa, who was basically the Japanese Lou Perlman, in that he got really rich throwing together boy bands, which gave him the opportunity to have his way with underage band members. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Sorry, I mean, allegedly had his way. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So here are the curogan g, a weird name I know since Corrigan g is the protagonist of the classic Japanese novel "tale of again G". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 On the other hand, the character of the car again to, sort of, basically the prototype of the Shonan. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So maybe the name is, sort of, appropriate for the band. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The band seems to have some sort of like rollerskate theme going on. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the game's plot appears to revolve around the need to find the band's rollerskates so the concert and go on. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Okay, so you're probably saying, well, this doesn't look too bad. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But what you see here is the entire game, this single story greens that have locations. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That's the entire game world. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You walk around talking to folks until you find the roller skate. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Then you repeat this for the remaining members. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The end. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The dialogue options differ for each member. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But still, if you knew the correct paths for each member, you could plow through this game really quickly. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Even compared to the other idle type games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This really seems to give Hikaru Genji fans very little to enjoy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, first of all, there's [pretty] much no music in the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And it doesn't even really focus on the band members. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And of course, you will, sort of, have to try to ignore the fact that in real life, these characters were more than likely being molested by a middle aged businessman at the time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Overall, make something like "Noriko" for the P.C. Engine look like a masterpiece. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Ankoku Shinwa: Yamato Takeru Densetsu 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 24 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Another | Zap Corporation 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Tokyo Shoseki 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Another super obscure Japanese Adventure Game, this time from Tokyo Shoseki the book publisher. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The title of this game is "Ankoku Shinwa: Yamato Takeru Densetsu" (or as we call it an English 'The Dark Myth'). 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 While this game was never-released outside of Japan, we do have this English translation from snark. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So we can attempt to appreciate this game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Ankoku..." is a [pretty] weird game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And part of this might be due to the subject which is the legendary early history of Japan. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Very briefly, the story concerns the Yamato people who are generally described as being the ancestors of the modern day Japanese people, and specifically one particular guy, Yamato Takeru, who is the son of the Emperor. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The larger story here is the conflict between two ethnic groups in old Japan - the Yamato and the Camacho. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Basically the Yamato wiped out Camacho, who were supposedly a barbaric people. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Eventually the model of ran all the other tribes in Japan and then became the Japanese people. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 By the way Yamato Takeru's sword, the Kusanagi, is currently one of the three pieces of Japanese Imperial regalia... supposedly. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 No one is allowed to see the Imperial regalia so hard facts about them are [pretty] scarce. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Confusingly, according to the historical novel, "tale of the heiki", the sword was dropped in the sea and lost forever. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So this whole ancient sword business is a bit fishy. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Anyway, the game is based on a manga by Othello named daijiro more Hoshi. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You see his name in the opening credits. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It originally came out in the <NINETEEN-SEVENTIES::1970s> and later got an anime version in <NINETEEN-NINETY::1990> or so. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The game was also released for the M.S.X. in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And you could probably guess it's computer origins by looking at the screen layout with all the space being taken up by the interface and the graphics being stuffed in like a little tiny box down at the bottom. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So the game concerns a guy who is apparently the ancestor of Yamato Takeru - or maybe his reincarnation; I really can't tell. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He investigates the murder of his father. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This all ties into an ancestor a reincarnation of a camassia dude, who is apparently involved in the return of the dark gods. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Because supposedly to them Camacho people were evil, and thus genocide come also at the hands of the Yamato was totally justified. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 As you can see the interface is sorta weird who have used move and walk as well as get si and se, which are horribly abbreviated do the problems with the translation of the compact Japanese text into English characters which take up more space. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You also have a bit of inventory on the upper right-hand corner you see some some icons there. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Occasionally you will need to use or pick up items and then use them later - for example, to open the lock door or reveal hidden passage or something. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here, for example, using the notebook and chanting a spell you found opens the door. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And here's the first boss, a weird, weird looking guy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 His arms look chopped off and he has like a long goofy neck. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He's also [pretty] damned easy, though most of the bosses here are. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, you might not know that when you're fighting him for the first time since you -- neither he nor you have a Life Bar. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So you have no idea if you're doing well or if you're one step away from death during the fight. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After defeating each boss, you move on to the next chapter. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Each chapter is completely discrete, and there's no sort of backtracking possible. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And each chapter is actually [pretty] linear as well - eight chapters all together and a few of them are [pretty] short. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And there is also some sort of time traveling plot involved I think. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This was one of those games that as I played it, I kept thinking What the hell is going on? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Environments all seem to be caves, temples, that sort of thing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And there seem to be a lot of like looking at inscriptions finding various Tork artifacts, gems, statues, ancient swords, all of which tend to have a very specific one time use. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It resembles a more linear "Shadowgate" [only] with lots and lots of dialogue and a plotline that dictates what you do and where you go next. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And the most interesting part is probably the bosses. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, they're all [pretty] damn large and creepy looking, which is weird because the rest of the game is very unimpressive visually. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So who developed "uncle Cushing one"? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Primarily zap a tiny contract developer. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Fortunately, a Game Developer Research Institute has contacted to Toshi Akashi, formerly of zap and various other Japanese developers. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So we have a bit of information on this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It seems app design the game and did the M.S.X. version, and Akashi did the sound programming for the FamiCom version. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Kill the rest of the programming for the FamiCom game was done by a company called another. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Akashi implies that the FamiCom programming was done by just one guy that you'll keep more Shima, who actually ran the company another. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Was amazing to think what tiny staffs game developers had back then, especially compared today where games have these huge huge staffs of hundreds of people. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright, so we're approaching the end of the game here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The ending is a bit weird. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You need to disguise yourself to confront your arch nemesis. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Yamato Takeru was had to disguise himself as a woman in order to assassinate the leader of the Camacho, and she does something very similar here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 However, if you fail to grab the coat and the scarf, your disguise is seen through and you get the bad ending or the dark God is reborn. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In order to get the good ending or the real ending, you need to pick up both the coat and the scarf. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Then when you talk to this guy, you'll end up fighting the final boss which is apparently the dark God that everybody's talking about. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Like every boss in the game, he's [pretty] darn easy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The fact you have, like, a projectile weapon throwing sword makes finding the boss metal [pretty] simple. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After you defeated him, there's a little bit of ending exposition. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As I mentioned earlier, I admit I have no idea what happens in the ending. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But the dark God is killed, everybody is happy, and then a volcano erupts. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Is that supposed to be a good thing or a bad thing? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Not sure. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Ankoku Shinwa..." is different than your typical "Princess Tomato..."-type Adventure Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But despite being translated into English, it's still [pretty] hard to get into. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Family Pinball 🇯🇵 // Rock 'n' Ball 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 24 🇯🇵 // 1990 January [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by KID | Artman 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Namco 🇯🇵 // NTVIC 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Whoa, fancy little graphic there! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can see all sorts of reflections and distortions and whatnot in that mall. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Family Pinball" is well it's a Pinball Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The title screen indicates the involvement of the developer Artman in the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But Game Developer Research Institute believed that kid key ID was involved in the development as well. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There are four gameplay options. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We'll start with the 'Pac-Man'-themed table. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Once you choose your table eat into the character to play as, and it's all Namco themed stuff. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have options for up to four players when selecting your game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The "Pac-Man" table turns out to be a [pretty] generic table design with a few "Pac-Man" elements kind of stuck in the background. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's two screens tall, you have two sets of flippers. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's really nothing to write home about. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But here's the where things get a little weird? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Let's check out the other options nine ball, huh? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This turns out to be an utterly ridiculous pinball Pachinko hybrid. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Yes, pinball in Pachinko. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You start off with some money. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He then place a bet and try to get the ball into the correct slot. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Cover the balls tend to find their way to the far left if you just drop them down, and we'll go down the gutter on the left side If you don't tilt the table. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And you don't even really use the Clippers that much in this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's actually quite weird. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Speaking of weird, the competitive pinball table is [pretty] damned unusual and it's actually quite creative. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You see, at the midpoint of the table gravity is reversed so once the ball reaches up the upper half, gravity starts pulling it up. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And as I mentioned, this is competitive. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 When when the other player loses the ball. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Furthermore, the flippers can be moved to multiple positions. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There either various, sort of, like offensive weapons, they'll do things like freeze your opponent's flippers. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This table comes in a couple different flavors the first we saw was a bomb and this here is thunder. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Finally, there is another competitive game sports. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is the Ice Hockey variation. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can control a goalie and a weird flipper that can spin around freely in a full circle. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Family Pinball" was, of course, a Japanese title, but some of this stuff might look kind of familiar to you. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As because it was released in the U.S. as "Rock 'n' Ball". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now remember, Namco was not releasing any N.E.S. games in the U.S. at this point. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 All the Namco games are licensed to other companies. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So "Rock 'n' Ball" ended up being in the hands of ntbi see, that is Nippon television. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Though the name of the Nippon television subsidiary VAP will also appear everywhere on the game and the box. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 All the Namco References were edited out. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The "Pac-Man" pinball is just called pinball pinball according to this screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I guess they tried to give the game some sort of rock 'n' roll theme, but this really hardly comes across at all. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Words like rock and shake are just really tacked on to random spots. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They'll notice kid's name on the table, so they must have worked on the U.S. version. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 For some reason, the Pachinko game made it intact even though the back of the box claims this is quote unquote, bingo inspired. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Other than a few logo changes, it's really the exact same game as the Japanese version. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 No hardcore pinball fans might not like this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, you see, the controls aren't that great. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can't really lightly hit the ball there flipper. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Even just barely tapping the button will send the ball flying [pretty] hard. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So those players who make use of like these advanced pinball techniques will probably not find that much use for the game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 On the other hand, the competitive play options are [pretty] creative. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So I guess "Family Pinball" wins points for originality, even as it loses points for Lack of refinement. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Jajamaru Ninpou Chou 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 28 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Jaleco 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Jaleco 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 March is slowly winding down. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We've now reached March <TWENTY-EIGHTH::28th>, and two games from Jaleco. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 First up is a cartridge, "Jajamaru Ninpou Chou". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Wow so it's been a while since we've seen a '...Jajamaru...' game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is, I believe, the fifth game and the 'Ninja kun'<SLASH::/>'Ninja Jajamaru...' series, making it the most prolific series on the FamiCom so far. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The other '...Jajamaru...' gains were standard Platformers, but now Jaleco has transformed it into an R.P.G.. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In fact, this is a [pretty] blatant 'Dragon Quest' clone. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Even Jajamaru himself has received like a heavy makeover, losing the hooded man outfit. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So [pretty] typical stuff at the beginning. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You head on to the village, buy some equipment, head outside, fight random battles, you know the usual. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 However, the interesting thing is that Jaleco did make some attempt to release some of the 'Jajamaru' games in the U.S. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In fact, this game had a plan us released as "Taro's Quest". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This was never-released, but a prototype of a localized version has been discovered. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also take a look at this now. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So in the intro, we learned that monsters are planning something treacherous. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Hmm, that's [pretty] vague! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Doesn't really give any, sort of, idea as to what you're supposed to do in the game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So right off the bat, we see some changes were made. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The Japanese version has a cutscene of you walking from the castle to the first town and then started when you were already in the town. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Taro's Quest" are to right outside the beginning castle, and makes you want to town. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 At This point you have no weapons, armor, magic or items, and naturally there are enemies that can kill you so you could die almost immediately in this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Luckily, the run option almost always works. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 If you somehow make it to the village you can heal at the end for a mere four Gold pieces, and naturally a want to buy some armor and a weapon. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also talking to N.P.C.s will sort of begin to fill you in on the plot and explain to you want to track down some magical orbs. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He didn't do the typical fight monsters and gain experience and he'll pattern. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Everything is [pretty] much as you would expect in the, sort of, game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Taro's Quest" is not exactly jam packed with character. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The enemies all look [pretty] generic. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The graphics or, sort of, dull battles are [pretty] lame, at least at first. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The [only] thing you can do is attack or run or use an item I suppose. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But there's absolutely no strategy involved. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Just, sort of, hitting the have buttons over and over again, kind of like the first 'Dragon Quest' game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Eventually things will improve. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As you Level Up, you'll occasionally get a visit from a Buddha who will grant you magic spells. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The first most really useful spell is the heal spell, which is called feed in this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Not really sure why. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Later in the game, you'll find other party members. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now aside from being translated in English, I should point out to the graphics have all been reworked for the planned U.S. version. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We'll just compare some of the characters and enemies. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The Japanese version tends to use like these cutesy type character designs, whereas the English version uses a slightly more realistic designs, and everything is not nearly as goofy looking. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Even Jajamaru himself has been the anime fine. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 For some reason, Jaleco was quite insistent on getting a 'Jajamaru' game out in the West. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 A bit later, a game called "Ninja Jajamaru Ginga Dice Couzin" with as a FamiCom game from <NINETEEN-NINETY-ONE::1991> was localized as "Squashed", but then once again cancelled. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, a Game Boy title "Boy Ra Jajamaru" was released in the U.S. as "Mario's Mission" and another Game Boy release "and Goku ninja Koon" was released in the U.S. as "Ninja Tarot". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now this is your first boss. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 By the way, he is a [pretty] decent Life Bar so you'll probably need to heal a few times and battle. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Once you defeated him, you'll get an orb which will grant you a lightning spell. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And at some point, you're gonna need to buy an absurdly expensive cake <fifty::50> Gold pieces, and traded for a portable bridge "...Zelda"-style, which allows you to cross a river. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Not sure why the cake would cost but that's most that's more than most of the weapons or armor at this point. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Jajamaru Ninpou Chou" is not too terribly interesting based just on its own merits. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I suppose it does bear witness to the changing trends in video games and the increasing public polarity of R.P.G.s in Japan. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However Jaleco couldn't quite settle on a particular genre for the series. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In later games that have been quite different than this one before the story is you know finally died out. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And, by the way, should you try to play this game, just realize that the English version is not actually completed and cannot be finished. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I believe they can [only] get around two thirds of the way through the game itself. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So if you try to play it before one. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Big Challenge! Gunfighter 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 28 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?] 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Jaleco 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You know, you just got to love the F.D.S. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Obsolete <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989> by technological standards it is keeps chugging along as a depository for cheap, quickly made, or old-fashioned games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Big Challenge! Gunfighter" is the latest in Jaleco's 'Big Challenge' series. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The first two were a Judo Game and a Horizontal Shoot-'em-Up, neither of which were very interesting. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I'm really not sure what the theme of the Big Challenge series is supposed to be. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I guess it's just cheap F.D.S. games on different genres. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "...Gunfighter" is like a Wild West-themed scrolling Run-'n'-Gun, I suppose. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Number kept comes "Gun.Smoke" through like a terrible side-scrolling version of that, or maybe a primitive version of Konami is 'the Lone Ranger' game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So you're the guy in blue, apparently, just walk forward shoot everyone. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And what happened here? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Was my health getting depleted already? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Do you see that green crate on the right that looks a little different than the others. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Somehow stepping on that causes you to lose health? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't know how or why but avoid stepping on the crates with those weird little vertical stripes. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Other than that, you just try to avoid getting shot by the various enemy gunmen that run around. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's actually [pretty] tough to knock and shot a lot since you've always got guys are just constantly shooting you all the time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Sometimes they kill them you'll pick up a health refill or more ammo or even money, which can be used to buy more ammo from the guy at the beginning of the level. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But here's the thing; I have no idea how to play "...Gunfighter". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 When I reached the end level, I simply restarted at the beginning. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 When this happens, your health and ammo don't refill. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So just I ended up getting like looped around over and over again on the first level until I just ran out of health or ammo. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And eventually the game ended. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I have no idea how to get to Level <Two::2>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Of course, "...Gunfighter" is so terrible I really don't want to see Level <Two::2>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I guess there's some sort of task you have to perform on Level <One::1> in order to move on - but really, what could it be? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Other than shooting guys, there doesn't seem to be much to do. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Anyway, there'll be one more 'Big Challenge' F.D.S. game before Jaleco kills the series and exits the F.D.S. for good. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 After Burner II 🇯🇵 // Afterburner 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 30 🇯🇵 // 1989 [?] [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Sega | Sunsoft | Tengen 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Sunsoft 🇯🇵 // Tengen 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Great music, but not such a great game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is yet another Sega Arcade Game released on the FamiCom by Sunsoft. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Its "AfterBurner" or more precisely "Afterburner <TWO::II>". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I'm sure I don't need to introduce "Afterburner <TWO::II>" you guys. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You already know the Arcade Game was a super intense, fast-paced game with tons of explosions and rock music - and of course, Sega is cool sprite based <THREE::3>-D graphics. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There wouldn't be a console that could replicate this until a <THIRTY-TWO::32>-bit era. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But that didn't stop Sega from porting it to the Master System and now Sunsoft to the FamiCom. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the results are less than spectacular. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "AfterBurner" is not a great deep game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Basically a play it for the audio visual overload appeal. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you take that away the game is not that fun. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is why the FamiCom version of the Master System version fail. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Not surprisingly, there was a U.S. released by tendon other than an "AfterBurner", as opposed to Sunsoft "AfterBurner <TWO::II>". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "AfterBurner" and "AfterBurner <TWO::II>" were essentially the same Arcade Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "...<TWO::II>" had a different title screen and some graphics and gameplay tweaks. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But it wasn't really a sequel, despite the name. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Likewise, the Tengen version is a little bit different from the Sunsoft version, mostly noticeable on the colors. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I'm not sure which one came first or why the changes were made, but neither version is really very good. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Anyway, "AfterBurner" is, as far as I'm aware, of the lastest Sega Arcade Games be released on the FamiCom by Sunsoft. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There will be an LTS version of Sega "Shinobi" pretending later on in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Putt Putt Golf 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 30 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?] 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Pack-in-Video 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Oh boy, we got another winner here, "Putt Putt Golf". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Myth that Golf balls either going to land in the hole or hit them on the hit. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 See, I told you so. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This F.D.S. came from Pack in Video is yet another Golf Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But at least it's not the typical run-of-the-mill example of the Golf genre. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Instead, this is a whole laki Golf Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Can't be really called miniature Golf, but the courses are all weird. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 As you see there's four courses each with his own theme cakes, sports, toys, and animals. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 These are all fantasy Golf courses and as a result, putt Golf is a bit different than most of the other Golf Games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here's cakes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Why cakes? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a [pretty] random subject for a Golf course. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But as we can see, it has various obstacles based on baked goods and terrifying giant amps. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 From a game mechanic standpoint, but it's really not that different from what we've been seeing in Golf Games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have the Power Meter thing used to swing your club. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 One annoying thing is you always have to manually move your pointer before taking a shot. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 A lot of the games like automatically point the reticule in the right direction or at least the general right direction, especially when putting. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But here for each shot the pointers like always pointing in the wrong direction. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So for every single shot, you have to swing the reticle Round towards the hole. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I suppose your overall strategy is going to have to be a bit different this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Since there's all these kinds of obstacles on the course, you'll need to move your ball and a path around the gingerbread houses and Soccer nets and whatnot. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So much like "Family Pinball", it's a new take on an old game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But in this case, I really wouldn't recommend getting "Putt Putt Golf" dry. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Operation Wolf 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 31 🇯🇵 // 1989 May [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Taito 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Taito 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright, March <THIRTY-FIRST::31st> here at last. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 All level what do you guys on this one "Operation Wolf" is not a game that I'm good at. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't really have much luck with this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But still, it's a classic of a sword I suppose. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You probably all know this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a first-person Shooting Game that gives you the options (in the last version) of using either the Light Gun or the D Bad. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Title releases in Japan first on March <THIRTY-FIRST::31st>, but they actually see U.S. N.E.S. version [pretty] darn quickly in May <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So there was very little delay between the Japanese Famicom release and the U.S. release. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "operation which" was a [pretty] big hit in the arcades when it came out in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SEVEN::1987> so title probably had high hopes for the home version. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This should look [pretty] familiar here - are basic 'Rambo' inspired Light Gun Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You walk through various in the bases and shoot everybody. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, you don't shoot the good guys. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Frequently sold and we'll jump right out in front of you and start blasting away at point blank range. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a reasonably fun quarter mature. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now for the home release, not too much was changed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Course the graphics aren't nearly as good. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The enemy soldiers are smaller and more nondescript looking. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And you don't have like those huge enemy sprites occurring in the foreground. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The explosions and sound effects and what are all much more subdued. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I'm not saying this is bad exactly. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But just quite a bit of the Arcade Games appeal is lost. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 No, the rules are simple if you shoot enemies, but don't shoot civilians. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Your ammo is limited so you need to be constantly shooting a little mo lethal icons that appear. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have a stash of grenades that are good for taking out tanks and helicopters. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It is [pretty] darn hard however. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There's all these several enemies on the screen at once, usually shooting at you so you tend to get shot a lot. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So it seems like your health is always draining while you're playing this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I died quite a few times playing "Operation Wolf" and it's a [pretty] repetitive game really. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is basically the whole game right here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's just shooting soldiers. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So "Operation Wolf", the Arcade version, I guess it's like a classic important title and one of the first really popular games of this genre in arcades. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But the home version is not quite as interesting. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Shadowgate 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 31 🇯🇵 // 1989 December [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by ICOM Simulations | Kemco 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Kemco 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright, we've reached the end of March. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And here's this episode's most well-known game (probably), "Shadowgate" from Kemco. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is the second to 'Macventure' game released for the N.E.S. bike Kemco. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The first being of course, a "Deja Vu" which we've already covered, and the last being the "Uninvited". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In the U.S., at least, "Shadowgate" is the most popular of the three 'Macventure' games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And this might have to do with the fact that was released first. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Originally, the games were released for the Macintosh computer with "Deja Vu" being the first game and "Shadowgate" being the last. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Kemco then released each game in Japan for the FamiCom - first "Deja Vu", then "Shadowgate", then "Uninvited". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, in the U.S. "Shadowgate" was released before "Deja Vu". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It actually came out in late <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>, with "Deja Vu" hitting the shelves in <NINETEEN-NINETY::1990>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The Computer versions such as those for the Mac, DOS, and the Amiga make use of the mouse. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The 'Macventure' games were among the first to what we'd call point-and-click Adventure Games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The mouse based interface made interacting with the game much easier than in older games that use text parsers. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now for the FamiCom versions of these, the interface was clearly going to have to be redesigned. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 To now use the D-Pad to move around a cursor and intellect options on the command window or the inventory window, which is actually called goods here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So we begin outside of Shadowgate Castle. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The first step would appear be opening the door and going inside, however doing so will quickly lead it to a dead end. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And because there's [only] more locked doors inside. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Shadowgate" demonstrates its insidiousness from the get-go. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So you can look around - and look at everything, it'll be beautiful descriptions. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can fool around by hitting stuff, but nothing seems unusual. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, in order to progress past the first rule, you need to use the open command on the skull, which unexpectedly pops out and gives you a key. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So the game [pretty] much screws you from step one. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There is a hint feature which can sometimes be helpful, but even more so than "Deja Vu", "Shadowgate" relies on like these weird arbitrary puzzles. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Though probably the way that "Shadowgate" screws in the most is with the constant deaths. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For example, in the second room in the castle, you'll see a book. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Okay, so you look at it doesn't really tell you much. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So using Adventure Game logic, you decide you should pick it up. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Really, in these games, you should pick up everything that's not nailed down because you never know; you might eat it later. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then the floor opens up and you fall to your death. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Yeah, it's the "Shadowgate" is just one of those games where you can die on almost every single-screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But you know, that's okay, because dying just means you get an entertaining description of your demise. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then you start basically just one step backwards where you were. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So the frequent deaths are irritating but they're not nearly as punishing as like those of Sierra games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 As for the types of deaths oh there are so many. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Look there's a trapdoor the ladder. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Let's climb down the ladder and oops I fell and I died. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Green slime. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Oops well I guess I got too close to it and died. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here's another trapdoor. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Not having learned my lesson I jumped down and break both my legs. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That's a slow painful death right there. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 When there's a dragon at the end of the hall and all this loot. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well this has got to be important so all just grab a piece and... I'm roasted to death. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And, of course, you know nuts not forget the classic. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Your torch burns out and you trip in the dark and break your neck. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "shadow get" requires and be constantly picking up torches and then lighting them. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You can also kill yourselves many ways. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Use the tort on yourself a few times and you catch on fire and die. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can use all Almost any weapon on yourself, and then the game will chastise you for committing suicide. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Is actually quite similar to "Deja Vu" so it appears that icom had, sort of, a suicide fetish of sorts. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So anyway, aside from all the various deaths in this game, sometimes just the required actions to go forward and make progress or just a bit obscure. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For example, this guy blocks your path. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now you collect torches throughout the game, but notice how that one torch is listed separately. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's between key one and key two. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You need to use your regular torch on that one separate torch and then someone unexpectedly it turns out like a magic torch and you automatically kill this guy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But this would really [only] come about through pure guesswork. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Sometimes things, sort of, make sense. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Like the word Ebor written above the rope. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Turns out, he pours the name of a spell you learn by reading that sign twice. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You do learn some magical spells and "Shadowgate" but they're [only] useful for exactly one time each - and always in a very special situation. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That sort of like a recurring video game pet p where again gives you a weapon or an ability that's useful exactly once and will never be needed again. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So once you get further into the game, you will encounter some enemies that are blocking your way. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Normally a deal with these guys by using a weapon against them, but it's always some very specific weapon. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 When you encounter a tool on a bridge, [only] the spirit will work. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Against this guy, the sling has to be used. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And work [only] if you just happen to pick up some rather innocuous looking rocks he had found lying around earlier. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The rule is if you can pick it up, then take it unless of course, it's something that kills you when you take it like that book that we saw earlier. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Quite frankly, the number of, like, things like keys, weapons, gems, scepters rings, crests, and so on get a bit overwhelming. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Virtually every screen has something that you're supposed to pick up and use these items to like unlock doors and kill monsters, but it's not normally clear what any item is used for. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So it's really a lot of trial and error. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here's one example. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You need to fool around with these switches until you move the lid and reveal the item inside that thing there. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is not really so much a puzzle as it is guessing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If anything, "Shadowgate" features more guesswork than "Deja Vu". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 At least the Murder Mystery Game had like some sort of like logical pattern, button "Shadowgate" a lot of this stuff seems just plain random. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 When you calendar a door that you have to put a gym into open how do you know whether to use the red gym or the blue gem? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There actually is technically a plot in "Shadowgate". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You need to stop the warlock Lord from resurrecting the world destroying behemoth, which is a biblically based beast often described as like a giant bowl or something, though here is kind of like a dragon. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Shadowgate" is obviously much less character driven than "Deja Vu". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Your character Rarely says anything and has no personality whatsoever. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There is none of the clever Hard Boiled dialogue writing that you found in "Deja Vu". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Instead, we just have some prosaic descriptions of yourself roundings. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In rather than trying to solve a mystery based on your last memories, the object here is simply how to figure out how to get through the castle and find the warlock at the bottom. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This involves lots of experimentation, full of fooling around, and dying a lot. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As with "Deja Vu", the D-Pad can't really take the place of the mouse when it comes to being used in this control scheme. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The pointer moves really slowly around the screen and stuff like having to two commands to get through a door first open and then move makes the game much slower than it should be. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But it's not a bad game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And despite the issues, it's not nearly as irritating and arbitrary as something like "Jesus bio monster". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Shadowgate" is still [pretty] fun to play so I wouldn't say that I wouldn't recommend it. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, this is kind of odd. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 While in the U.S. "Shadowgate"'s considered a classic you know, for the system. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In Japan it's apparently considered to be kusoge, mostly due to the frequent deaths but also the bizarre flowery descriptions of the depths that are given to the Japanese language. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Apparently in Japanese this game sounds quite silly. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 From the perspective of someone in <TWENTY-TWELVE::2012> it's kind of hard to know to make a "Shadowgate". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And it was one of the first courts of the computer Adventure Game released on a console and it introduced the young gamers to the Adventure Game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 On the other hand, it isn't exactly "the Secret of Monkey Island" as far as Adventure Games go. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So let's call it a flawed and primitive minor classic. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Home Run Nighter: Pennant League!! 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 31 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?] 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Data East 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Oh wonderful... another Baseball Game - just what I needed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is "Home Run Nighter: Pennant League!!" from Data east, a relatively obscure game which spawned a very short-lived series. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There are [only] two 'Home Run Nighter' games, I believe. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 [Pretty] nice title screen though. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I like the cool illustration of the stadium at nighttime, the city lights flashing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Definitely a good title is great. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But what about the game? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, it's your basic by-the-book Japanese Baseball Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You choose between various fictional teams with weird names. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I like the name buttah. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Each team has a detailed roster and apparently each player has their own stats. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Even the manager portraits are [pretty] well done and I kind of suspect that they might be based on real life Baseball managers. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So as we can see, "the Home Run Nighter" is very much in the tradition of Namco 'Family Stadium' series. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We have kind of similar depictions of the players being short, and round, and cartoonish. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The major difference is that Homer Nutter uses a few different graphics for its players. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Some guys are taller have different faces, so every single player does not look exactly alike. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Beyond that, oh, what can we really say about this game? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's just like every other similar game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 A lot of the typical complaints that I have about these Baseball Games also apply to "Home Run Nighter", especially when playing against the C.P.U.. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's hard-to-hit the ball and I got way too many foul balls. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, in this case, the C.P.U. has the same problem, as demonstrated here where the C.P.U. hit about <ten::10> foul balls in a row. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, when you do get a good hidden the ball seems magnetically attracted to the gloves or the outfielders. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, look at this! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 To the outfielders even need to move or do the balls go directly to them? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Either way, the C.P.U. never misses a catch. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 On the other hand, you will miss lots of catches because you can't see where our folders are until the ball is almost ready to land. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Need to get your players in the correct position but since you cannot see where they are, as the camera is slowly panning across the field, it's really difficult to move them to the right spot. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So in case inclusion I'm getting tired of all these damn Baseball Games. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Matsumoto Tooru no Kabushiki Hisshou Gaku 2 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 March 31 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Infinity 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Imagineer 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Oh God, here we are last the end of March - game <TWENTY::20> this episode. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is the second 'Akira Matsumoto' game, the first thing from February <~<TWO-THOUSAND-EIGHT::2008>~::{NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988}>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You might not remember that game but it was a Stock Market Financial Simulation-type Game based around the real life financial guru, Akira Matsumoto. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But this is really one thing I don't want to have to deal with right now. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The Japanese Stock Market Simulation Game? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, look at the crap I had to put up with this episode. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And now this? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I mean, for God's sake, you actually have to name three characters - not one but three! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then you have to fill in their attributes? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 To choose their social status I think it is. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then you have to give them a certain amount of money to start off with, I believe? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Really the object here is to make a lot of money through the stock market, but that [only] scratches the surface. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It seems this game is much bigger and much more complicated than the first one. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So here's your main screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The market doesn't open till nine so until then, you can check the news, look at your day plan or, all kinds of stuff. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Once the market opens, you can buy and sell stocks. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But there's lots more. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can borrow money, buy real estate; you have to deal with your wife and family. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can take a mistress, win lottery, car accidents. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's almost like a life simulator. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And, not content to just have you look at various boring text filled screens, this game lets you travel to various locations and then (get this!) wander around and first-person <THREE::3>-D mazes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As you walk through these things, we'll find weird things like jewelry stores and fortune tellers and, of course, property for sale. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So it gets all the all this looks really cool, but honestly, this is way too complicated for me. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In this game, we're an English and I have the instruction manual I still probably wouldn't be able to figure all this out. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is like one of those old-school Computer Games where after a while of trying to figure it out you go, 'you know, this game is just not worth the effort.'. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Still, I guess it's a [pretty] commendable effort from Imagineer infinity. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, how many video games let you cheat on your wife and get divorced. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🥇 Episode 43 Wrap Up ✨


🤖🍊🍓 Alright, I'm glad that's over with. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So what's on the agenda for "...Episode <FORTY-FOUR::44>"? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, Namco is going to dominate next episode with four games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But we also have a classic game from Technos Japan. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 We're gonna have some bonus content as well and that's going to take a [pretty] decent chunk of the episode. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So [only] <twelve::12> actual FamiCom games to be covered. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Regardless, it's going to be a [pretty] substantial episode. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So be prepared. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎞️ Episode 43 Credits ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Vitamin C" ♪ by Can (Live in Paris <NINETEEN-SEVENTY-THREE::1973>)


👓🏮🍊🍓 Thank you for watching 🍋 "Chrontendo 🍋 Episode 43". 🍇🍌


👓🏮🍊Opening Music: 🍋 ♪ "UFO" ♪ by ESG 🍋 🍋 Game Info Screen Music: 🍋 ♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise 🍋 🍋 Ending Credits Music: 🍋 ♪ "Vitamin C" ♪ by Can (Live in Paris, 1972)


👓🏮🍊Produced by 🍋 👨🏻‍🏫 Doctor Sparkle ✨ 🍌


👓🏮🍊🍓 All images and sounds contained in 🍋 this video are copyright their 🍋 respective owners. 🍇🍌


👓🏮🍊🍓 Support 'Chrontendo' on Patreon. 🍇🍋 patreon.com/Chrontendo 🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# ㊙️ Sparkle's Surprise ✨


🤖🍊🍓 ... 🍇🍌










