🗂️# N45 00.01 🤖[🦦],🏮


👓🏮🍊🎇# 📽️ Chrontendo Title Sequence ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "UFO" ♪ by ESG


👓🏮🍊{Dr. Sparkle Presents}

👓🏮🍊"Chrontendo 🍋 EPISODE 45"🍌


👓🏮🍊Transcript ⌨️ in English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 from 🍋 Lily Mwangi 🍪 and Nate Lawrence 🏮

👓🏮🍊Index ☰️ + Captions ⏱ 🍋 in English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 from Nate Lawrence 🏮🍌

👓🏮🍊Translated from English 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 🍋 to __________ 🏁 by __________ ⬜🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🗨️ Introduction to Chrontendo Episode 45 ✨


🤖🍊🍓 Hey everybody, "...Episode <FORTY-FIVE::45>" is here at last. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We've got two months may in June <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989> and <fifteen::15> games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So what do we have today? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 A Nintendo Adventure Game, a Capcom R.P.G. and an S.N.K. Sports Game, and the first game from the guys who later made "Pokemon", and a huge hit from Konami that is really not that great. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Sorry. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But the highlight is a look at attending game and the horrible convoluted licensing shenanigans that occurred when trying to bring that game to the consoles. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So let's get started. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Meitantei Holmes: M-Kara no Chousenjou 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May 01 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Another 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Towachiki 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Oh man! Hell of a way to start a new episode with a Towachiki and into sequel "Meitantei Holmes: M-Kara no Chousenjou". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Towachiki is probably the most well-known for "A Week of Garfield", which we just saw last "Chrontendo...". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And Towachiki is not very prolific, so it's kind of strange thing two games released almost back to back. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This is the third and last 'Meitantei Holmes' game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The first was from way back in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SIX::1986> was completely different. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It was more of an Action Adventure Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That was one where you walk around various talents in England and people were shot at you for no reason. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The sequel, "...Kiri no London Satsujin Jiken" was a standard "Portopia"-style Adventure Game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now "...M-Kara no Chousenjou" is a bit better looking than either the other two. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Holmes no longer has green hair, the artwork is much less ugly, and the music is mostly a bit renditions of various classical pieces. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It was developed by Another put in the previous Towachiki '...Holmes' game as well as Hot B's '...Black Bass' games, and "Hoshi no Miru Hito" that astonishingly terrible and buggy R.P.G. which came in at the number two spot and the 'Chrontendo' list of "...Worst FamiCom Games". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, this is not a really interesting or original game, though it does wipe something for much better Adventure Games, namely the prologue sequence that leaves the title screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I believe that actually Enix started this trend with some of their earlier Adventure Games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This guy looks like Principal Skinner from The Simpsons. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 One thing about this game is it's very heavy on dialogue. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He spent most of the game talking to people, which is typical for this sort of game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But for fans of Western Adventure Games, it might seem [pretty] repetitive just hitting the Ask button oh, over, and over again. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There's very little action. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, it does break up the monotony by throwing in this little maze sequence, set in Paris. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But there's really nothing here that makes it, sort of, stand out from the crowd of the many, many Adventure Games we've seen so far. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Kabushiki Doujou: The Stock Speculation 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May 09 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Hect | Tose 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Hect 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright, out of the frying pan and into the fire. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 What's this next thing about? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well think. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 What is the least exciting genre of video game? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Probably the Stock Market Simulation Game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This is weird music. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That's not really the soundtrack to making a lot of money in my opinion. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 From Hector, we have the wonderfully titled "Kabushiki Doujou" (or 'Stock Market Dojo'), you know, dojo like karate dojo. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And this is your stock market master. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Obviously, this game doesn't take itself too seriously. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The graphics, by the way, are done by Tose. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 If you start by choosing how much money you have. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Let's go big; I feel really lucky today. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That is some tall cash. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I love the way this guy just whips out these three foot tall stacks of money. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, how do you even transport that much cash? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So you pick your stock here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You then get a little chart showing the stocks performance. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This lady with a skinny legs will then take your money. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Once she's standing in front of? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That supposed to be some sort of computer? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright now let's see what kind of profit we're making. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Ah, good. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Let's keep going, huh? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, that's not so good. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So this is just, sort of, what you do over and over again. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you do really badly this go hop in and get mad at you. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And honestly, I can give you a note tips about how to play this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If I knew how to make a fortune in the stock market, I would be recording this on a beach in Bermuda somewhere. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you make enough money, you win the game and you turn the girl. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But I'm afraid it's up to you guys to figure this one out. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Gekikame Ninja Den 🇯🇵 // Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May 12 🇯🇵 // 1989 June [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Konami 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Konami 🇯🇵 // Ultra 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Okay, here's one that everybody remembers, though not necessarily in a good way. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Released on May <twelve::12> by Konami, "Gekikame Ninja Den", though we know it as "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" released in the U.S. in June under Konami's Ultra Games label. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 As we know Konami tended to alternate between top-down exploration base games like "King Kong <TWO::II>" and "Metal Gear", and the side-scrolling Action Games like "Contra" or "Rush'n' Attack". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Sometimes Konami combines the two into one game like "get su two mod n" or this one right here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Each level involves you roaming around on the overworld and entering various side-scrolling areas. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In this way it does actually resemble "get sufu mod in" quite a bit. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, I assume most of you out there have some familiarity with the "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They begin life as a comic book, which just happened to come out exactly the right time. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now for those of you who are not children of the <EIGHTIES::'80s>, I will offer up this little digression. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In the <SIXTIES::'60s> and <SEVENTIES::'70s> are mostly two types of comics in the U.S.: mainstream comics (from large well distributed companies) and underground comics (would toward normally in black and white and contain lots of sex, and drugs, and violence). 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Towards the late <SEVENTIES::'70s>, the traditional underground comics begin dying out and a wave of newer alternate comics began emerging, poppin was Science-Fiction or Fantasy themes. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The early <EIGHTIES::'80s> also saw an explosion of more serious independent comics. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The alternate comics scene just completely exploded in popularity this time and dozens and dozens of small black and white comics appeared. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 One such comic, which was self published by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, was <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-FOUR::1984> "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now anyone who read comics at the time would recognize the title as referencing some biggest trends in mainstream comics at that time - namely mutants, teenagers, and ninjas, as seen in the best selling comics of the time, 'The Uncanny X-Men' and 'The Teen Titans', as well as the immensely popular titles from Frank Miller. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The first issue of "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" is mostly inspired by Frank Miller's 'Ronin' comic. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I wouldn't really call the '...Turtles' a parody of these comics. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It was more of like a goofy piss take in which the fact that the heroes are turtles undermines the gritty, supposedly mature qualities of Miller's comics. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, the comic was a huge and unexpected success and was very quickly reprinted several times. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As far as I know, it seemed to ignite the trend of comics, selling for many times their original cover price within months of being released. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It bolstered the wave of emergent funny animal comics in the <EIGHTIES::'80s> and of course, inspired numerous to direct rip-off, spoofs, and so on. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Eastman and Laird folded up with more issues of the comic and then in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SEVEN::1987>, signed a deal with playmates to release a series of turtle toys, which became insanely popular. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Simultaneously, the rights to the turtles were licensed to an Irish animation studio and the "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" cartoon debuted in October <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now by this time, the tone of the comic could change quite a bit and then the animated cartoon lighten up even further. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the our heroes were given a California surfer dude makeover and made to say such things is 'Cowabunga', despite New York City not really being a surfing hotspot. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 For a while the '...Turtles' were a phenomenon on par with D N.E.S. itself with tons of toys, serial, movies, and, of course, goes right here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Go Ninja, go go Ninja, go Ninja, go. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Go Ninja, go Ninja, go, go, go, go go. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Konami released tu '...Turtles' games and <NINETY-NINE::99> - the one we're checking out today and an Arcade Game which is perhaps slightly better regarded in the console game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Exactly the first in a series of Excellent multi-player Arcade Beat-'em-Ups from Konami and would eventually get Nintendo Entertainment System version as well. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 For the time being, however, we are stuck with this - the first '...Ninja Turtles' game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's not a bad looking game, the music is really good, and it's sold like hotcakes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's just now considered a much lesser game than the other '...Turtles' games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 One cool feature is the ability to swap out characters at any time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Donatello with his staff has far and away the most attacking power as well as a longest reach. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He's the most valuable turtle so it's best to save him for bosses or otherwise difficult situations. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now one criticism of this game is it doesn't really seem to be based on the cartoon series. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The enemies are, for the most part, not taken from the series with the exception of a few of the bosses. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Like this dude, what's he supposed to be? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 A chainsaw wielding dude and purple pants? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 What does it mean? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Even the manual can't be bothered to tell you who these guys are, though it does somehow managed to squeeze A reference to the Blake Edwards movie "<ten::10>". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Though in all fairness to Konami development on this game would have been done well before the cartoon actually debuted. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here's the second boss fight Bebop, or is it Rocksteady? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I can't remember. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I'm using the cheap method on this guy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I wonder if when Michael Bay makes his roommate code changes name to pro core something. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But of course, the thing that everyone remembers is the Hudson River stage. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Shredder has planted bombs in the river to blow up the dam. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The dam? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 What dam is that? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Oh, you know, the big dam on the Hudson River right near Manhattan. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Surely you've noticed that damn before? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 According to the manual, it's right near the Holland Tunnel. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It was far as video game water levels go this one is somewhat annoying. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have these electric barriers as well as the killer kelp and the time left to work with. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And your turtles aren't really that easy to control while swimming so it's [pretty] easy to hit the kelp and take damage. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Still, it's not really that bad and the game does get much harder to. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 See I made it just barely. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After this we get a cutscene. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Young people today, I assume would see this and wonder 'what are those things on the right side of the TV?'. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This level is called Wall Street for some reason, despite the fact this doesn't resemble Wall Street whatsoever. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And why is there a river running through Manhattan? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Oh, I get it. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That must be Canal Street. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 These levels are [pretty] nonlinear. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And many of the areas you don't need to enter at all; you can skip quite a few of them. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But there are some Bible things be found. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Like the pizza which will come Quickly refill your health. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And they reappear when you exit and reenter so you can max out everybody's Health Bar here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Their Health Bar does not be filled between levels so any pizza you find is quite valuable. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also, if one of your turtles had lost all his health and becomes captured, you can actually rescue him and one of the sewers here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And you define some missiles and some rope. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't know why rope is so hard to find in Manhattan. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The boss here is another turtle who turns out to be a robot. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I like the way Splinter slowly floats to the ground, after you've rehabbed. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And this really isn't a bad game; it's just not very inspired. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It doesn't seem to have to do much, you know, with the actual "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Honestly, you could change the character sprites here and you'd have no way of knowing this was supposed to be a '...Ninja Turtles' game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I'm sure that it has its defenders. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But, really, if you were going to sit down and play a '...Ninja Turtles' game, would you choose this one? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Would you really? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I somehow don't think you would. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Tenchi o Kurau 🇯🇵 // "Destiny of an Emperor" 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May 19 🇯🇵 // 1990 September [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Capcom 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Capcom 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 At this point, Capcom hasn't really produced a whole on rate game so the FamiCom. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Oh, sure, we had the two "Mega Man" names and "Via Commando". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But other than that there was, I guess, "Commando" maybe "Legendary Wins". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Well, here's a little-known cult classic "Tenchi o Kurau" (or, 'Eating the Heavens and Earth' - eating metaphorically, I guess). 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In the U.S., we call this "Destiny of an Emperor" - not a very appropriate title, as we'll see. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So you don't normally associate Capcom with R.P.G.s. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In the Super Nintendo era, they'd come out with that one series a 'Dragon Breath', or I guess actually a 'Breath of Fire'. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But when you think Capcom, you think Action Platformers are Fighting Games, but not normally R.P.G.s. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, 'Dragon Quest' was really popular in Japan at this time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And so we're Military Simulation Games, which had a number of historical themes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So I guess Capcom decided to kill two birds with one stone and came out with this. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 What we have here is a 'Dragon Quest' clone set in ancient China. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In fact, it's based on "The Romance of The Three Kingdoms", the Chinese historical novel that we've already seen a few games based on, like Kohli's "Romance of The Three Kingdoms". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So this is based on that famous novel from medieval China, which tells a highly fictionalized version of the events of The Three Kingdoms Arab China, which takes place in around <ONE-HUNDRED-EIGHTY::180> to <TWO-HUNDRED::200> To add. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The opening cutscene shows the three main heroes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There's the main dude (Lee Bay), the big tough guy (Guan Yu), and the fiery tempered Zhang Fei. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They're swearing an oath of allegiance in the Peach Garden. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Kuan Yew a.k.a. Guan Gong (the guy with the red face the big beard) and john fair very common figures in Chinese art Chinese opera so on. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You've undoubtedly seen these guys somewhere before. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 A lot of Chinese businesses have statues of Guan Yu because he symbolizes honesty. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So obviously Capcom him live the look and feel and 'Dragon's' in a big way even down to the talking animals. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 While "Destiny of an Emperor" does feel, sort of, superficially like in this game, the mechanics are a bit different. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a bit similar to another R.P.G. based on a classic Chinese novel, "Satomi Hakkenden", which we cover back in "Chrontendo ... <FORTY-ONE::41>" as well as a technical game called "Sonata Do you seen" from "...Episode <THIRTY-TWO::32>". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Just Like those two games spend a great deal of time wandering around picking up extra playable characters. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But here's the thing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Destiny..." has like over <ONE-HUNDRED::100> with Google characters. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's, sort of, like the sweet codan of its time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In towns and in battles, you're always finding guys to recruit. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This makes sense because "Romance of The Three Kingdoms" had around <TWO-THOUSAND::2,000> different characters. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Every other page, some new Chinese general just appears out of nowhere. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now it turns out this is not even adapted directly from "...The Three Kingdoms". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Instead, it's from based on a somewhat obscure manga from Hiroshi modal Mia, which is so obscure, it never even got an animated version. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Most R.P.G.s we've seen give you three or four member parties. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Capcom ups the ante by giving you and whopping's spots in your party. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Since this is a realistic R.P.G., instead of fighting monsters, you just fight regular guys. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Often they'll be like a leader, or general, or something who appears. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You'll know these guys because they have a name instead of just like a generic description, Rebel force. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Destiny..." takes a couple elements as well from "juyo machine" such as the notion that each character has his own miniature army with them. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So what appear to be Hit Points are actually the number of troops each character commands. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the odd thing is you can just walk into an in in town and restore your army to full strings, which doesn't make any sense when you think about it. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, you're literally marching hundreds or thousands of guys into it in, resting one night and then all these dead soldiers come back to life. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That makes less sense than most R.P.G.s. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Also, other than your five party members, there is a six positioning to fill - the tactician. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Isn't actually fighting battles, but allows you to use tactics and battles, which is really just plain old magic. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The tactics have Chinese names but are mostly it's revised R.P.G. magic spell type things - various elemental attacks, healing support, spells, and so on. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There are some interesting ideas implemented here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For example, water cells can [only] be used in the bathroom if it's taking place near a body of water. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Another unusual feature is the all out command. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And that's basically just an auto battle feature. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's convenient, but battles to last a [pretty] long time, and your party will just attack and maybe that's randomly. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Cannot make it focus your attacks on one particular enemy at a time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So usually take more damage doing it this way. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The game starts the trying to snuff out the yellow scars rebellion or the Yellow Turban rebellions is also-called, which was a large uprising of commoners and unemployed soldiers who are tired of getting screwed by the wealthy landowners and a local government. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 From the perspective of "The Romance of The Three Kingdoms" they were the bad guys, because, I mean come on, screw the common people. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also, some of the people in the rebellion were apparently able to cure the plague that was going around China at that time, so they got a lot of followers because of that. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After this, you take on all sorts of posing military forces and will counter many of the favorite characters, such as Lulu, the superhero-like warrior are juga Liang, the great military strategist employed by little Bay. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Of course, most of the guys you can recruit are worthless scrubs. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And I don't even know why this game is called "Destiny of an Emperor" since your character doesn't become the Emperor, at least not the real Emperor. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He did rule over one of The Three Kingdoms that China was divided into. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Was actually a guy from a rival Kingdom that became the emperor of unified China and begap the Jin Dynasty. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In a rather a historical twist, the game ends with battles against him he and the rest of his clan, though this isn't what happened in the novel or in real life. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Rather than getting wiped out by Leo Bay they were the ones who actually eventually conquered the other two kingdoms and started the Imperial dynasty. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Somebody even received a posthumous title of Emperor of China. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The thing is "...Three Kingdom" is a very long and complex novel and the game can't really recreate the political intrigues down there in. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Leo Bay himself has was constantly changing fortunes often in gaining control of an area and losing it. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Various alliances were forged and broken. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the book is filled with scandals, rebellions, seduction, assassinations, sieges, betrayals, and quite a bit of weird stuff. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 One of the strangest stories is when Lou Bay is on the run and have to take shelter in the height of some peasant dude. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The guy wants to show the obey the proper hospitality, but he doesn't have any meat to serve him. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So he goes into the back, slaughters his wife, cooks her up, and then serves it to the unsuspectingly obey, who then finds the wife's carcass. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now if this weren't ancient Greek myth, this would lead to all sorts of bad s--- going down. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But here a bay cries tears of gratitude that the guy's generosity and thanks him, which is a [pretty] odd reaction when you think about it. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 A lot of folks out there really love "Destiny of an Emperor" and you will see it being called one of the best games on Nintendo Entertainment System. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I can't exactly agree with that assessment. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For an epic story there's so many characters there's very little plot or characterization. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Instead of your classic J.R.P.G. structure of moving from town to town, occasionally fighting boss battles and picking up special items or something. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And despite the hundred plus playable characters, there are no attempts made at getting any one personality at all. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Its potential party members just a collection of stats, a name, and a nice little portrait. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Though many of the character portraits are really just the same guy with different facial hair and hats. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 If you like a lot of right in your enemies well this game is not really for you. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There is mostly just one type of me the soldier. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They are often accompanied by those named characters I mentioned who have no special abilities. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But be prepared to fight quote-unquote 'rebel force' over and over and over again. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you are looking for like a cool distinctive looking me they're monsters you better skip this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Even the final battle is just a couple of generals and some rebel forces. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The ending is [pretty] anticlimactic, even for an <EIGHT::8>-bit R.P.G.. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Kill the bad guy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He says 'Well, I guess my time is up.'. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Then you enter the castle and talk to the King who says thanks now we have peace in our land. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Royal credits. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's not quite as bad as the classic 'Congratulations' ending, but it's not that far off either. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Still, beneath the primitive looking surface is a reasonably sophisticated game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's certainly not as well-remembered as the more traditional Fantasy R.P.G. is in the <EIGHT::8>-bit era. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But it does have a [pretty] big cult following today. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So I give it a hesitant recommendation. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Baseball Stars - Mezase Sankanou!! 🇯🇵 // Baseball Stars 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May 19 🇯🇵 // 1989 July [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by SNK 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by SNK 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The first of two S.N.K. games today is "Baseball Stars - Mezase Sankanou!!" (or 'Baseball Star - Eye on the Triple Crown'). 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The baseball triple crown is not the same as the horse racing one. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now we've seen a lot of lame, uninteresting Baseball Games, but this is not one of those. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 No, "Baseball Star" (or "Baseball Stars", as was called in the U.S.) is the "Tecmo Bowl" of N.E.S. Baseball Games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now over the years, we've seen console Baseball Games graduate from being relatively simple titles like the original Nintendo-published "Baseball", to the super complicated games we have today, where you control every aspect of the game - the league, the players, the teams. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We've done a few Baseball Games to slowly introduce some simulation elements. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But "Baseball Stars" really goes beyond what we've seen so far. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You create leagues and you can add teams to the leagues. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Each team has its own roster full of unique players with names, multiple stats, portrait art, et cetera. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Naturally, you can create your own team which involves naming the team, picking a logo, filling it up with players. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Once you have your team or teams you can trade players, hire players, ranging from rookies to stars. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Naturally, this involves firing extraneous team members, which gives you the sad little scene. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Aside from the expected stats like batting and running, players have prestige, meaning that having these guys on your team brings in more spectators to the games, which means more money for the team. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Money allows you to improve the team by hiring better players and so on. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Building up your team is essential. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So really, this does resemble a lot of modern Sports Games with career modes and owners modes and so on. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The game itself plays [pretty] good. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 S.N.K. goes for a realistic style art as opposed to the silly looking cartoon figures from games like 'Family Stadium'. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You know, it's nice to play a Baseball Game where you can actually get a good hit on the ball instead of endlessly hitting fouls. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In terms of controls, I'd say this is definitely one of the better ones we've seen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Really the controls just to work like [pretty] much every other single Baseball Game, but everything seems a little bit tighter. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Of course, filling is still tricky when you can't see your outfielders. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 All in all, I'd say it's the team creation and the extreme degree of customization that makes "Baseball Stars" such an outstanding Baseball Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 S.N.K. would release a few sequels and starting with "Baseball Stars Professional" they move the series on to the neogeo. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 FamiCom Tantei Club Part II - Ushiro ni Tatsu Shoujo 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May 23 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Nintendo | Tose 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Nintendo 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Holy crap, a Nintendo game! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As I've mentioned, Nintendo is clearly devoting all their energies to creating games for the newly released Game Boy and the upcoming Super FamiCom. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But this one right here "FamiCom Club Tantei {Part} <TWO::II>..." is the first new Nintendo game we've seen since "Super Mario Bros. <THREE::3>" and that was back in October of last year. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So that's seven months between games. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Well, this is the second 'FamiCom Club Tantei' game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Just like Nintendo's other F.D.S. Adventure Games it was released in two parts. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The first came out on May <TWENTY-THREE::23>, and the second on June <THIRTY::30>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So what's going on here? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This runaway kid is the main character from the first game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is technically a prequel to the first game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The as being chased by the police when this detective appears out of nowhere and basically says, 'I'll take this kid with me.'. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So this chicken Hawk detective decides to turn the kid into his Ward or whatever. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Hey kid, do you like Gladiator movies? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This is a [pretty] classy game as far as "Portopia" clones go. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Was produced by gunpei Yokoi, though Tose also worked on this. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So even Nintendo's using Tose at this point. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The music, like that of the first game, was from Kenji Yamamoto, who is later well we're very well-known as the primary composer for the 'Metroid' games, starting with "Super Metroid". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The plot begins with the murder of a High School girl and you are given the job of junior detective and you're supposed to set out and investigate the murder. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You know, the Nintendo F.D.S. Adventure Games are [pretty] high-quality, but there actually is a better version of this. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In <NINETEEN-NINETY-EIGHT::1998>, Nintendo released a Super FamiCom remake. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Obviously, this one-offers better music and graphics, but it has another advantage. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's been given an English translation on official, of course. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you want to play one of these classic Nintendo Adventure Games, you might want to try it this way. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now on a positive note, the wait for the next Japanese Nintendo release will not be that long. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There's a major title coming up at the end of July. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🌟 The Story of Tetris ✨


🤖🍊🍓 Next up is one of the most infamous carts released for the N.E.S.: Tengen's "Tetris". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Released in June <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989> the sale was quickly halted by a court order and all unsold copies were destroyed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 What exactly happened? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, we will take a look at the horrible convoluted history of "Tetris" and the struggle over the rights the game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Most of this information is taken from David chef's book Game Over for a couple reasons. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The info is drawn from interviews with most of the parties involved. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And having been published in <NINETEEN-NINETY-THREE::1993> these interviews were done shortly after this actually occurred and before people's stories started changing due to fading memories, and the need to rewrite history in a light a bit more favorable to them. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here are some of the characters we'll be encountering. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Alexey Pajitnov the main creator of "Tetris", Nikolai belikov a Soviet bureaucrat, Robert Stein from British software company Andromeda and the guy who first discovered "Tetris" in the West, Robert Maxwell British media magnate, Hank Rogers of Bulletproof Software, We know Rue Arakawa and Howard Lincoln from Nintendo of America, and many others. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This much we know for sure "Tetris" was born in the former Soviet Union at the computer center of the Academy of Sciences in Moscow, by a group of computer engineers. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Chief among them was budget nof, who was inspired by the old mathematical game up and dominos. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Tetris" was originally developed for Soviet computers in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-FIVE::1985>, but put it off and his associates create a DOS version as well. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, "Tetris" was not intended as a commercial product, so copies found their way around Eastern Europe quite freely. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 At this point, Robert Stein enters the picture. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He was born in Hungary, but at the time was involved with licensing Hungarian software to British publishers, through his own company and dromeda. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In June <NINETEEN-NINETY-SIX::1996> he sees "Tetris" at a Hungarian computer Institute, in versions for DOS, the apple and the Commodore <SIXTY-FOUR::64>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now this being <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SIX::1986>, the [only] way Stein could get in touch with the Moscow Academy of Sciences was to cinema good old-fashioned telex. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He sends a message saying he would like to acquire the rights for the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The message is given to budgeting off and after going through the necessary bureaucracy Budget Noctilux his back saying he would like to make a deal. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Meanwhile, Stein is shopping "Tetris" to potential buyers in the U.K.. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now here's where things get a little crazy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stein asks Microsoft, a well-known U.K. publisher, if they're interested. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Microsoft refers them to Spectrum Holla bite, a California based software company partially owned by Microsoft. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Inter Gilman Louie of spectrum hollow byte. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We've encountered him before. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 His F-16 Fighting Falcon game was one of the first non-Sega games for the Master System. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We covered that way back in "Chronsega Episode <ONE::1>". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also the Master System alpha monopoly were connected to GM and Louie's company Next up. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Louis played "Tetris" and decided would be a huge hit and wanted the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That's the deal was set up, giving the rights for "Tetris" to Microsoft and spectrum holobiont - except for the handheld rights and the Arcade rights. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Microsoft and thus spectrum albite were part of the media empire owned by Robert Maxwell, a former Parliament Who owns such newspapers as the Daily Mirror as well as book publishers, record labels, and half of MTV Europe, and God knows what else - a big shot in other words. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now things start getting weird. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In November <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SIX::1986> Stein, telex, what he thought was a deal to license "Tetris" to his company Andromeda, which would in turn license it to mirror soft. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He received a reply accepting the offer - or so he thought. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In December <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SIX::1986>, Stein flew to Moscow to physically sign the contract with the Academy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, when he got there, it turned out the deal was not as firm as he thought. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And while it seemed the details were hammered out, no contract was signed at that meeting. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This presented a problem since Microsoft and spectrum holobiont were already preparing for their release of "Tetris". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In June <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SEVEN::1987>, Stein officially completed the deal between his company and Microsoft for the rights of "Tetris" for all quote-unquote "computer systems". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The term computer system will be important later. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Apparently mirror software not aware that Simon was still trying to get the rights to "Tetris" fine lines with the Soviet Academy of Sciences. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And then more problems. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Essentially budgeting off in the academy had agreed to tell the "Tetris" rights this time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But a relatively new still the organization called electron org technica (or elara, for short) inform them that they did not have the authorization to negotiate the sale of "Tetris" because [only] l org had that right. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In other words, Stein's deal with the Academy of Sciences for "Tetris" was [pretty] much null and void. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 At this point, Stein was freaking out sansome airsoft and spectrum hollow byte were already selling Computer versions of "Tetris" in January <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stein then negotiated a deal with LR which was officially signed in May <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988>, giving Stein the rights to "Tetris" for quote-unquote "computers". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now, this is when things start getting worse. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stein told mirrors off that he was going to get the Arcade rights to "Tetris" next. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Thus, Microsoft begin negotiating with our Atari Games, ie the parent company of Tengen for Arcade writes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Tory then plan to release the Arcade "Tetris" in the U.S. and made a deal with Sega for the Japanese Arcade rights. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Meanwhile, Stein was going through a really torturous negotiation with L org, trying to get the contract for the Arcade rights signed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So far, not too bad. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But then a disagreement occur between spectrum hollow bites gum and Louie and Microsoft in the U.K.. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You see hink Rogers of Bulletproof Software, who had released a few FamiCom games, one of the Japanese rights for home versions. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, mirror soft had already sold the U.S. and Japanese home rights to Atari Games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So this Hank Rogers now had to contact Atari games to get the Japanese home rights. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Eventually Rogers and Bulletproof Software release "Tetris" in Japan on both computers and the FamiCom. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We saw the Bulletproof Software version of "Tetris" in December <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We saw that version actually in "Chrontendo ... <FORTY::40>". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now at this point, Nintendo America and As a pitcher. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 President Minoru Arakawa saw the computer "Tetris" at a game show, and thought would be an ideal fit for the upcoming name boy, and asking Rogers if he could obtain the rights for the handheld version. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Roger seemed to have an extraordinarily good relationship with Nintendo. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In fact, Roger seemed to be liked by just about anyone and everyone and can talk anybody into anything. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Meanwhile, Stein still couldn't look at the Soviets to seal the deal on the Arcade rights. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Mirasol decided to go around Stein and try to get the rights themselves. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Robert Maxwell son Kevin was dispatched to Moscow. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Amazingly, Rogers, Stein, and Maxwell all arrive in Moscow to meet with Elora at the same time in February <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 To make matters more confusing, Stein's original contact at LRM had been replaced, and the new guy, Nikolai belikov, didn't seem that interested in working with him. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now, Rogers arrived first, term the Russians, made buddies with the Jitney, and signed a contract with LR for the handheld rights. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Then the s--- hit the fan. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Roger showed Bella called Bulletproof Software's FamiCom "Tetris" game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Belicoff stated this version was never authorized. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Rogers game this will be its trust by writing a check for the royalties on the FamiCom version. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Meanwhile, Stein and Maxwell are in the same building in different rooms. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And belicoff is meeting with them at the same time as Rogers. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Bill call says he won't give Stein the Arcade rights unless he signs a revised version of his original contract. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The new contract contains an important extra line defining computers as having quote a processor, monitor, disk drive, and keyboard. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stein, for some reason fails to notice this line, and the signed away his rights for "Tetris" on consoles. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He then secured the Arcade rights. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Kevin Maxwell, meanwhile, got screwed getting a contract saying he could bid for the handheld, Arcade, and console of "Tetris" rights later. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Rogers told intent of America that the rights for the console version "Tetris" were now up for grabs. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Nintendo quickly send the lawyer over to Moscow to make a bid. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 According to belikov, the rights were still open for he was calling quote-unquote "a computer without a keyboard". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Elecom accepted the offer and airikkala and Howard Lincoln jetted to Moscow to sign the contract. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now once there Lincoln was, of course, concerned the Soviets are trying to sell them the right that were already held by mirror soft. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So Bill cough pulled out the revised contract signed by Stein and pointed out the line about the sale [only] applying the systems at a monitor and keyboard. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This convinced Lincoln that the console rights were still up for grabs, and slink can purchase those rights for an enormous amount of money. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And elorg fax two letter to Microsoft basically stating 'Hey guys, you don't have the console rights to "Tetris"; Nintendo just purchased them.'. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Suddenly Microsoft, Stein, and Atari Games were very very upset. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now Atari (that is tingin) had already created an N.E.S. version of "Tetris" and was getting ready to release it in the United States. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Then, feeling that they had the exclusive control rights, filed a cease and desist letter to stop tingin from selling "Tetris". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Back in the U.K., the rich and powerful Robert Maxwell was [pretty] upset and started stirring some s--- up. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He was actually friends with Gorbachev, who promised to me look into the whole "Tetris" deal. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Suddenly, Bill acabo is getting pressure from the K.G.B.. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Tengen sued Nintendo, Nintendo countersuit Tengan, and Atari stop paying royalties to Microsoft who stopped paying Robert Stein. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In June <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989> the legal proceedings were beginning right as Tengen was getting "Tetris" out on the shelves. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now ultimately, what settled matter legally was the line about monitors and keyboards. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Tengan lost the case and could no longer sell its version of "Tetris". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Nintendo of America then released its own version of "Tetris" later in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And really, this whole thing, sort of, dragged on for years. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stein since no money was coming in from Microsoft couldn't pay l org and lost the computer Arcade rights. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Robert Maxwell of Microsoft drowned in <NINETEEN-NINETY-ONE::1991> and his empire collapsed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Tank and running and legal bills eventually folded. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Nintendo and Hank Rogers made tons of money and but did not made none. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So what happened? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Whose fault was all this? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's impossible to say. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Some people blame Stein for essentially trying to steal the rights for the console "Tetris". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stein states it was clear from beginning that he was buying the rights for all existing formats of "Tetris" aside from the handheld rights and Arcade rights. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stein partially blames mirror soft, which sold the Arcade rights to Atari before Stein had finalized the deal with L org, thus forcing him to do anything that LR offered him in order for it to get the Arcade rights. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And log the programmer of the tendon "Tetris" basically say that l org sold the same "Tetris" rights to two separate companies. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Those on the losing end of the deal tend to see belicoff as the chief bad guy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He knew that mirror soft believe that they'd personally As the console writes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But once realizing just how much money Nintendo is going to offer them, found a technical loophole to cheat Stein, Microsoft, Atari out of "Tetris". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Either way, it seems to me Stein was foolish to have signed that revised contract. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Regardless of whose fault this really was, pinkins "Tetris" barely saw the light of day before was pulled from the shelves. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Let's take a look at the actual game itself. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Tetris 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Alexey Pajitnov | Tengen 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Tengen 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So here's Tengen's "Tetris". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Note the Academy Soft and Elorg copyright writes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In on these lockscreen licensed by Microsoft, all the guys we were just talking about. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Look all the game options - single player, <TWO::2>-Player competitive, <TWO::2>-Player cooperative (both of which can be played with another person or with a C.P.U.). 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And, aside from choosing a level and a handicap, you can pick one up for musical tracks. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So what can we say about "Tetris"? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We all know this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 What made "Tetris" different than all the other Puzzle Games we've seen on the FamiCom? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, maybe it's the simplicity. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Maybe it's the infinite replayability. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Something like "Solomon's castle" or "so coupon" or "the adventures of Lolo" are great games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But they are a bit more complicated with the levels, enemies, items, rules to memorize. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the current, sort of, intended to stretch your brain's abilities. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You might have to apply a certain, like, level logic -- logical thought to these games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And to look at the layout of the items on the screen then concentrated final solution and you can get stuck quite easily. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In "Tetris", there's really none of that. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There's more or less one concept you have to keep in mind. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Fill up all the spaces in the horizontal row. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 One to learn how to rotate the blocks that's [pretty] much about it. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You know how to play the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Anybody can play "Tetris". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's takes <TWENTY::20> seconds to learn. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And you can never really get stuck. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I mean, you can make mistakes, sure. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But you can usually recover. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And if not, then you start a new game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Everyone starts new game eventually. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And that's the thing you can never really lose the "Tetris". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You just restart and continue. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It doesn't really feel like failure. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here's the <TWO::2>-Player mode. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's [pretty] simple - compete for points. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The blocks come down in the same order for both players. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Later, "Tetris"-like games would often added competitive features like we're clearing a row would cause more blocks come down your opponent side. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But the competitive game here isn't quite that developed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Both players work [pretty] much completely independently. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I like this version of "Tetris" better than the earlier FamiCom game from Bulletproof Software. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And of course, it's generally considered to be better than Nintendo's "Tetris", which came out a few months later. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As we see it here, there's nothing too horrible about that version, but it just doesn't have all the different game selections and missing a bit of flair of the Tengen "Tetris". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Supposedly, this sold very well for the two weeks that it was available and would have been an enormous hit for Tengen, had it not been pulled from shelves. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a real shame because I'd say this is unequivocably the best release we've seen from Tengen so far. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Kaettekita! Gunjin Shougi: Nanya Sore!? 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May 26 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?] 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by SOFEL 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Oh god, what is this? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Another oddball Japanese game, "Kaettekita! Gunjin Shougi: Nanya Sore!?"? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We all know what 'Shogi' is - the Japanese Chess game, but this is "goon g jokey" (or 'Soldier Shogi'; it might also be translated as 'Military Shogi'). 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This was published by SOFEL, which actually made a lot of Computer Games back then. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As we can see, it says show me sell Board Game but with a weird theme. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Show B, as you recall, is a Japanese Board Game very closely related to Chess. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The rules are similar to Chess, but just a bit different. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Goon Gene showbie hover is something else entirely, as we'll see. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here are the five enemies you can play against. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 A sickle will being jack [of] lantern guy, an alien, sumo wrestler, re wearing Adolf Hitler, and some sort of gangster wolf guy, I guess. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It says here, his name is wolf cupola. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Is that supposed to be a mangling of wolf Capone... maybe? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now this is somewhere between real 'Shogi' and Military Simulation Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You and your opponent take turns moving your pieces. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But instead of 'Shogi' pieces you have various units which seems to be, sort of, scattered around randomly on the board. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Each unit has own attributes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For example, there's always a flying unit has a lot of range; it's a duck here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Doing the 'Chrontendo' series has exposed me to a lot of stuff I've never heard of before and the Military Shogi genre is certainly one of them. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And it does appear to be an actual genre. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Electronic versions first appeared on Japanese Computer Games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here, for example, is "Gunjin Shougi Mars" from Toshiba EMI on the M.S.X. from <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-FIVE::1985>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here's another one, "Gunjin Shougi Military Chess" from Pac and video in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988> M.S.X. <TWO::2> game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And as far as I can tell, it actually began as an actual physical Board Game played with short pieces. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Like a lot of Military Simulation Games, "Gunjin Shougi..." employs a system where certain units are strong against some units, but weak against others. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So if you had a strong against unit B, then you a will always defeat B when they occupy the same space. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But you can't see what the other players units are. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In the video game version, you can see what units you have, but not the C.P.U.s. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They all just appear as generic soldiers on the board. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You need to determine what the pieces are by their moves and the outcome of the battles. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 When playing in real life on a physical board. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is done by placing your showbie piece of space down. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So as you can imagine, is a [pretty] difficult game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So it appears that we've learned something about somebody obscure Japanese Board Game today. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Let it never be said that 'Chrontendo' is not educational. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Super Chinese 2: Dragon Kid 🇯🇵 // Little Ninja Brothers 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 May 26 🇯🇵 // 1990 December [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Culture Brain 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Culture Brain 🇯🇵 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright, it's our good buddies Culture Brain back with a new game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Whoa, that's [pretty] freaky! 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Super Chinese <TWO::2>: Dragon Kid". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now this is a [pretty] weird game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 On the title screen there are two options. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We'll check out the second one first. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It is rather mysteriously a "Track & Field" type game that just, sort of, seems tacked on. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There is a connection to the main game, as we'll see later, but the inclusion of this seems just a little strange. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I guess they wanted a <TWO::2>-Player competitive component or something. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Let's shift gears a bit and look at the U.S. version called "Little Ninja Bros" a name that doesn't make sense because ninjas are Japanese, not Chinese, but whatever. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The artwork has been redrawn here; not sure why. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here's the main game, the R.P.G. game, which had a <TWO::2>-Player mode - quite odd for an R.P.G. of this vintage. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Actually has a [pretty] good intro. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So the Emperor of China land has been kidnapped and jack and Ryu set out to rescue him. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is one of those wacky Japanese games which takes oddball elements like T.V. sets and toss them into a fantasy world Chinese setting. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As we'll see, there's all kinds of weird talking animals and stuff in here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's actually quite creative. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Private stash. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I'm [pretty] sure I know what that refers to usually and it's not like a bunch of money that you're hiding somewhere. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Super Chinese" to is an R.P.G. with the typical 'Dragon Quest'-style overworld villages and to a lesser extent, dungeons. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is the first village it's located right next door to the turning point. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Anyone who's played 'Dragon Quest' or similar games will know exactly what to do here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You talk to N.P.C.s, check out the shops, get equipped, and head on out. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The original "Super Chinese" was an Arcade port released for the FamiCom in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SIX::1986> [only] about a month after the first 'Dragon Quest' game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It was called "Kung-Fu Heroes" in the U.S. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It was a straightforward single-screen Action Game and when she walked around punching dudes and rock her bill fist. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The sequel essentially takes the mechanic of the first game and use this as the basis for the battles. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So whenever you get a random encounter instead of turn-based battles, you do this. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Other than that, "Little Ninja Bros" is almost exactly like every other R.P.G. played. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here's my equipment. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is my status. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There'll be all these there must also be some sort of defense stat which is not displayed because you buy armor to increase it. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright now remember on the menu you had like those Racing Games you could do? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Those are integrated into the main game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 From time to time willing to play one of those in order to get a special ability or something. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here you have to pop balloons to learn a special kicking load. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 A couple things here: the random battle frequency can be very irritating. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 At times you can be looking for battles to get experienced and you can walk around for like a minute with nothing at all. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then sometimes a battle will start every other step. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There are two things to do in battles: punch rocks to get special items and kill enemies. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have two basic attacks: a punch and a jump. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 These guys cannot be killed by the punches, so you need to jump and land on them... or I guess, sort of, jump over them and land near them. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's actually not quite clear what counts as a hit when it comes to jumping. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 After you've killed enough, the rest will run off and you'll get some experience in money. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Another irritating thing are very unbalanced encounters. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I'm at Level <Two::2> here. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And suddenly along comes a group of Level <Ten::10> enemies, completely out of nowhere. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And after this might be a whole bunch of Level <One::1> and two monsters. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 These both things are [pretty] much impossible to kill at least at Level <TWO::2>, and they can very quickly annihilate you. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the game does this all the time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I was actually having trouble making progress at times because I kept running into groups of enemies with, like, <ten::10> levels or so above mine. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 On the positive side, "Little Ninja Bros" has some really great character art, and a very unusual and creative sense of humor. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The village, Delicious, is being starved by the food-hoarding king. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The citizens are all walking around half starved. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 When you enter the palace of the King, he seems very generous and friendly and gives you a huge meal. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's actually a [pretty] well done plot twist for a <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989> R.P.G.. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And in a rather gruesome touch who are locked up with prisoners who are being fattened up by the King, who is apparently an aficionado of human flesh. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can escape, attain -- obtain a helpful item, and then return to the palace, and engage in the first boss fight. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The boss fights here are a little bit different than most R.P.G.s. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They consist of like several rooms full of consecutively more difficult enemies. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then finally the boss himself, which is you know, fought like in an action style battle. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Fighting this guy is not too exciting. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But the whole idea of being, like, drugged, in prison, escaping, and engaging the boss and his minions is actually a bit more involved and R.P.G. boss battles at this time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This kind of heavily plotted boss battle is more something that you associate with Super N.E.S. R.P.G.s. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And then in a funny epilogue that the real king rewards you with a huge meal which makes you too fat to get to the door. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And you need to exercise to work off the weight. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now aside from your standard punch and jump attacks, hitting the rocks on the battle screen will drop various other attack options. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can see these along the bar at the top of the screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The case will like common jumping kick (which is kind of hard to actually hit anything with), the little star things or projectiles, and finding enough of the gems in one battle will give you temporary invincibility. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You can also pick up swords that perform powerful attacks and have a downside - namely that enemies killed by swords don't drop experience. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 These things get a bit of a ride to the combat, but the punches and jumps are [pretty] much your bread and butter attacks. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This town is called Silly City. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Every one is well, mentally disabled. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For some reason there are a lot of shirts hanging to dry outside. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I'm not sure if that's somehow linked to mental incapacity in Japan or not. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And oh yes, the shops are being run by these Doctor Seussian looking snakes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And this is odd there's three little naked dudes. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I didn't finish this game, but there is a password that allows you to see the ending. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's quite charming. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Just like ultra brains "Magic of shares odd", "Little Ninja Bros" is an unusual hybrid with very well developed characters and a really strong translation. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 At this time, even high-end games like "Dragon Quest <THREE::III>" rarely had characters that's where we'll give out more than a line or two of dialogue. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But Culture Brain made like every person in the game seem quirky and memorable. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the character portrait art is all very good as well. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I suppose the one weak spot is the battles. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 After playing something like "that Received ransom" the controls and mechanics seems so clunky. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And not really very much improved from the first game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And certain things like having random groups of high level enemies appear out of nowhere to kill you and not being able to run away all of the time are [pretty] annoying. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I'll go ahead and leave you with this goofy ending. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 La Salle Ishii no Child's Quest 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 June 23 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?] 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Namco 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 We just had one of those inexplicable gaps in the FamiCom release schedule. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "Super Chinese <TWO::2>" came out on May <TWENTY-SIXTH::26th>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then Nothing for a whole month. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Can you imagine there not being like a single Xbox <THREE-SIXTY::360> game released for a month nowadays? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't think that ever happens. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 But here we are on June <TWENTY-THIRD::23rd> and the utterly insane-looking "La Salle Ishii no Child's Quest" comes out. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I'm going to have to give this the 'Chrontendo' Wacky Japanese Game designation. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You remember that Adventure Game based around the roller skating boyband, "Hikari dingy roller panic"? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well, this is an R.P.G. based on a pop band, but not a real life pop band, as far as I know, but a fictional one. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 However, this is another celebrity-base game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 La Salle Ishii is a Japanese media personality. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For some reason and Roman characters his name is often written as loss of our he and he often see this game listed under that spelling. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So here's your band. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They don't look too excited. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And is that kid the middle wearing suspenders? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Is it going for the clockwork orange look or something? 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now I don't know who to build this, but this game does clearly not push the FamiCom to its technological limits. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And it's very clearly patterned after "Dragon Quest", though this takes place in the real world. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 If you're watching this in the <sixty::60> frames per second version, you'll notice that crazy sprite flicker there. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Instead of purchasing weapons and armor, you buy outfits and musical equipment. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There are some weird things about this game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 First of all, despite your band having three members who function is [only] one party member. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That is you [only] have one set of stats and you [only] attack once during your turn of battles. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And you are not technically attacking the people that you meet here, like, for example, Skrillex. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But instead you were trying to convince them to like your band or something. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You just keep trying to withstand their attacks and the battle eventually end. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Sort of a shame because the game might be better if you were actually a teen pop band that went around killing random people on cops on the streets. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Also in the upper right there is a dissatisfaction category. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 One of them is 'ringing' or 'cold'. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 These seem to measure your physical discomfort. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So yeah, this is a [pretty] oddball game, but it's not too surprising considering we've already seen several games based on T.V. personalities and J-Pop bands. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Big Challenge! Go! Go! Bowling 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 June 23 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by [?] 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Jaleco 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Our other F.D.S. game today is from Jaleco, "Big Challenge! Go! Go! Bowling" - the fourth and last game in Jaleco is 'Big Challenge!' series. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The previous games were a Judo Game, a Shoot-'em-Up, a side-scrolling Western-themed Run-'n'-Gun, and now a Bowling Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Why did Jaleco lump all these together into the same series? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't know; I guess they were all just cheapy F.D.S. games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 By the way, this will be the last FamiCom Disk System game from Jaleco. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And this douchebag here is your opponent. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Look at that headband (though your player is represented by some anonymous looking schmuck with no chin)! 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I guess at its heart is, sort of, like a simplified Golf Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You position your aim, who can move the ball left or right, and you can also, sort of, control the direction via those bars on the middle right of the screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Then you do the old Power Meter thing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And that's [pretty] much about it! 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 However, Power Meter is very fussy, more so than in most Golf Games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have to land it right at the blue arrow. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Otherwise your ball be way off center. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Even better one bar off will cause you to miss depends entirely. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And if you get a gutter ball the game is played this little illustration. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 God taught it says. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I believe, this is the second Bowling Game we've seen - the other being "dynamite bowl" a couple years ago. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And while "...Go! Go! Bowling" is reasonably competent. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It is [pretty] generic. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 SD Gundam World: Gachapon Senshi 2 - Capsule Senki 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 June 23 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Human 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Bandai 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Hey kids, do you like... robots? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Do you like your robots... deformed? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 How about the super deformed? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well then I have a game for you, "S.D. Gundam World: Gachapon Senshi <TWO::2>...". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The first game was covered back in "Chrontendo ... <TWENTY-SEVEN::27>". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It was an F.D.S. release. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then there was also a "...Map Collection" earlier in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But this is the true sequel to "S.D. Gundam... Gachapon Senshi". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The "...Map Collection" is more like an expansion pack of some sort. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Alright, so you choose your options, <TWO::2>-Player, <ONE::1>-Player versus computer, and so on. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't really know why that guy looks like Edvard Munch's "The Scream". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 There's also a built in cheat function, or maybe it's a handicap function. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 On give myself a huge advantage because I don't really want to spend too much time playing this thing. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 As you can see, I have the advantage in forces as well as more money for building units. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 See that thing with the G on the front? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That's your gotcha billing machine. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 That'll allow you to spend the money and build robots, just like any modern day Strategy-type Game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This was developed by Human, just like the first game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The concept here is these are capsule toys sold in those vending machines where you put a coin and out pops the capsule with a Gundam toy inside. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Gachapon is what Bandy calls us toy machines. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 'Gotcha' is supposed to sound like the noise made when the handle is turned. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The thing is, this seems very similar to the first game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's almost identical. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Some of the background tiles have been changed and there's a bit more animation. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The units are actually very similar to the ones in the original. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The user interface has been tinkered with a bit. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The biggest improvement is that sense is on a cartridge rather than the F.D.S. discs, it's faster. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You no longer have to deal with all those loading screens. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But really, there doesn't appear to be that much difference between this and the first game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It's still a [pretty] annoying game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is mostly because of the battles. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In most Military Simulation Games when your forces meet the enemies there's like a little short animation representing the battle and then the results are displayed. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 "FamiCom Wars", "Military Madness", "Civilization" - they all use this system. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The 'S.D. Gundam...' games, however, actually have you fight it out in battles with these little robot versus robot sections. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Actually into run around fighting each other until one runs out of health. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 While there's nothing wrong with deviating from the time-tested standard of automatic battles (in quite a few of the Military Simulation Games we've seen in 'Chrontendo' have done this) the problem here is that these segments are really dorky. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Robots feel very clumsy and mostly just end up like standing next to the other guy hitting your attack button over and over again until the weaker robot blows up. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 If you try to play tactically, like hiding behind buildings, and then firing off shots or something, the battles will drag out way too long. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the levels in this game are already too long. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is the first level in the game. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Remember "Military Madness"? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You could win the first level in a matter of minutes. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here, despite the fact that I gave myself huge advantage from the get-go, I actually gave up because it was taking so damn long. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 How is this? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Well because it takes so long to move your units across the damn screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You'd have to move about <THIRTY-ONE::31> spaces to get your -- from your gachapon machine to the enemies. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And all the units move very slowly over see, desert, and four squares which make up a huge chunk of the distance. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Units tend to move, like, around one or two squares per turn when going over these kind of tiles. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In order to win level you must defeat these super powerful Gundam inside the enemy's gachapon. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And by this point I could have defeated him but all the units I created in the second half of the game we're still slowly making their way across the map. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Combine this with the fact that the there's, like, these long battles and you get a game this drags on way too long. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Oh, anyway, there's plenty more 'S.D. Gundam' games coming up later in 'Chrontendo'. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So maybe these next ones will be better. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Quinty 🇯🇵 // Mendel Palace 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 June 27 🇯🇵 // 1990 October [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Game Freak | KID 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Namco 🇯🇵 // Hudson 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Now this is an interesting one "Quinty" published by Namco is a very well-made an enjoyable Action Puzzle Game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Just like "Tetris", the mechanics behind the game are quite original. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's not just another "Sokoban"-inspired game or something. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You can choose any of the nine stages except the final castle stage. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 They've gone ahead and started the easiest one. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Your hero is named Cartman, for some reason; maybe that's supposed to be cartoon. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Their girlfriend has been kidnapped naturally. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And the objective is simply to destroy all enemies. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But your secondary goal is to pick up stars and to rack up points. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Deep Space on the floor is a flippable tile. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Flipping one adjacent to an enemy will push them backwards. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Doing this to push them back into a wall will destroy the enemy. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Most levels contain various special tiles, such as, like those you see in the corner there. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Touching these, for example, will flip over every tile and the corresponding row and column which will push back any enemies it hits and crush them into the wall. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Keep in mind this will also flip over any star tiles, making it so you can't collect those stars unless you flip them. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Collecting stars because you extra lives so for goodness sake, grab those stars. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Surprisingly, "Quinty" did get a U.S. release. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But remember, Namco did not publish games for the N.E.S. in the United States. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Instead, it was released by Hudson who changed the name to "Mendel Palace". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Why was it called "Mendel Palace"? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 No idea. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It now has this creepy look bunch of guys on the title screen. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Likewise on the box cover the cartoony fingers have been replaced by this collection of freaks and weirdos. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Mendel, of course, was the <NINETEENTH::19th> Century friar who laid the groundwork for the modern study of genetics. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Maybe all the bad guys in this game are supposed to be genetically screwed up mutants or something. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't know. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 A few things were changed in the U.S. version, but really, it's the same game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The plot, according to the U.S. manual, is completely new. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And, sort of, like "A Nightmare on Elm Street" inspired twist, the heroine has been trapped in her dream by her own toys and dolls. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Yet the manual artwork doesn't depict them as looking anything like dolls. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So "Mendel Palace" is not very consistent with its own backstory. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Anyway, perhaps the primary reason the game is so notable is that it is the first game from Bellbird Game Freak, Satoshi Tajiri, his company with art by Ken sugimori. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Game Freak would eventually become an Nintendo second-Party developer, and whose greatest success was, of course, "Pokemon". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you've ever wondered why they call themselves Game Freak, well did you re and sugimori originally started out publishing a gaming fanzine called Game Freak before deciding to make games themselves. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So "Quinty" is a [pretty] darn good game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Each level introduces a new type of enemy, which will have new behaviors and abilities. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Aside from revealing stars, flipping tiles will often reveal special tiles. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Here, for example, the moon will turn level dark and bring up the stars on every tile. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Later, you can get 'bad' tiles such as portals that produce more enemies. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 After beating each level on particular stage, you fight a boss battle, with the exception of the first age; it just gives this cutscene. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 He then move on to the next stage. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The like I said, you can start on any stage you want except the final one. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So it, sort of, like "Mega Man" in a way. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Enemies get tougher as the game goes on. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 These guys jump and can't be pushed back while they're in mid-jump. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Later enemies will have the ability to clip tiles themselves, freeze tiles so they can't be flipped, and so on. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It can get very hectic in the later stages. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The <TWO::2>-Player Co-Op game is even better. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Though Be warned you can push the other player into enemies if you're not careful. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Overall, it's a [pretty] darn fine game - one of the better Puzzle Games in the FamiCom and certainly a worthy start for Game Freak. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Datsugoku 🇯🇵 // P.O.W.: Prisoners of War 🇺🇸 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 June 30 🇯🇵 // 1989 September [?] 🇺🇸 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by SNK 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by KAC 🇯🇵 // SNK 🇺🇸 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Here we are on the last day of June <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989> and it's a another S.N.K. game published by K. Amusement, "Datsugoku" (or 'Prison Break'). 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Like so many other educated names it received the U.S. police, this time under the name "P.O.W.: Prisoners of War", a helpful name for those who didn't know what 'P.O.W.' is stood for. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 We even have a little opening cutscene. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Alright, so your orders are to infiltrate enemy headquarters as prisoners of war. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So at the headquarters is located at a P.O.W. camp? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Is that a normal thing to do in the military? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I thought P.O.W. camps are always someplace out of the way and far from the front lines. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Where is the headquarters might have to be somewhat mobile as the front line moves around? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't know. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Conveniently you are captured sent to headquarters where you blow up the cell. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 How? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Where to get the explosives? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I don't know. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now you can take down enemy forces by punching every single in the soldier to death. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So "P.O.W...." is a Beat-'em-Up. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You have a punch, a kick, and a hard-to-use jumping kick. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Look at this; it's being worthless here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So clearly "P.O.W...." is very "Double Dragon"-like. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And just like "Double Dragon" it started out in the arcades in this case in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Almost all of S.N.K.'s in yes releases at this time were Arcade ports. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You get a much better so escape sequence here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 One of the most striking things about the game was the hilariously powerful kicks that you have. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Dudes just go fly across the room when you kick them. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Also very cool was picking up military assault rifles. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And the Arcade Game to the standard <TWO::2>-Player Co-Op as well. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 For the home version this was dropped, just like with "Double Dragon". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So here we have the assault rifle. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You can pistol whip or rifle whip amazed with it by hitting the punch button. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The kick button will fire the rifle. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Naturally this just tears through enemy soldiers, but it also burns through ammo really quick. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 You Rarely get the rifle because, quite frankly, it would make the game too easy for easily obtainable. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Other dropped weapons include a throwing knife, and well actually, that's all I found. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You will occasionally enter these rooms where you have to find a few enemy soldiers and they'll give you some kind of like special item like armor, brass knuckles for more damaging punches, health refills, that kind of thing. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 However, you will lose this stuff when you die. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Hopefully you save the rifle for the first box. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's a big ol helicopter - a typical 'Rambo'-inspired boss. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Basically, you can just wait till he gets low enough and then shoot it up. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 If you don't have the rifle, you have to throw grenades at it. 🍇🍌



🤖🍊🍓 One thing about "P.O.W...." is that it's hard. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 At least it's hard for someone who's never played it before (like me). 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There's a Konami-like cheat code that gives you <twenty::20> lines. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But it's really easy to burn through those lines Amanda amazingly fast. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 In my opinion, this is much more difficult than Konami's "Contra". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 You have a Health Bar, but getting hit by a grenade will instantly cause you to lose one life. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The levels are relatively long with plenty of enemy encounters and making an occasional mistake could be enough to whittle down your life at a [pretty] decent clip. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now granted, I've never played this game until now, but it does seem a lot harder even in stuff like "Double Dragon" or "Bayou Billy". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 I mean it was at least tolerable till I got to this boss. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Now aside from able to shoot him from clear across the room, he drops a steady stream of grenades on you. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Each shot and grenade will cause you to lose one life. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And if you get knocked down by grenade will often walk by and drop another grenade on you while you're still on the ground. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And then keep repeating this until all your lights are gone. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And less frequently is spread guns hit you and knocks you back to a measly fire again, hitting you a second time. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So you can easily lose all your lives in a matter of seconds with this guy. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And he moves way faster than you. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is one of the cheapest vases I've seen on 'Chrontendo' so far. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 To be a trick to beating this guy, but I don't know what. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Anyway, aside from that, I suppose that "P.O.W...." is a [pretty] cool-looking Beat-'em-Up that doesn't always play fairly. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎮 Murder Club 🇯🇵 ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise

👓🏮🥭🗓️ Released 1989 June 30 🇯🇵 
👓🏮🍒💾 Developed by Riverhillsoft 
👓🏮🍒📦 Published by Seta 🇯🇵 🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Eww! 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This music seems ripped off, sort of, from Goblin score to "deep read". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Our last game today is "Murder Club" sometimes called "Sujin club" or "JB Harold miracle". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 What? 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I see the programmers got very clever here. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 This is from Seta who publishes mostly crap at this point like the "Tom Sawyer" game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Though the game today was created by river Hillsong. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 As odd as it seems "Murder Club" was more or less for real Soft's claim to fame. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And has a [pretty] slick interface. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There's even a map which shows you the locations that you can move around and. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It relies a lot less on long dialogue sequences way a lot of other similar games do like to a cheeky "Sherlock Holmes". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It somehow pills a bit more detective II. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Apparent apparently the original game was designed by one Rika Suzuki. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 And she's still active today making games like "Hotel Dusk: Room <TWO-FIFTEEN::215>" and "Trace Memory". 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "Murder Club" has appeared in many forms, but it began on Japanese computers. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is the M.S.X. version from <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-EIGHT::1988> supposedly. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Though other sources say it was released in <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-SIX::1986>. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 The title screen calls it "Final Mystery Murder Club". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This is, sort of, the "Ys" of "Portopia..."-style Adventure Games. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It came out on multiple platforms and the graphics and even the title were changed each time. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 It got a DOS version a couple years later. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This even came out in the U.S. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Everything moves much faster than most Japanese Adventure Games or traditionally the text appears very slowly letter by letter. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 This seems to have received [pretty] good reviews from U.S. gaming publications. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 In <NINETEEN-NINETY-EIGHT::1998> TurboGrafx C.D. version was released. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The artwork was once again completely redone, there was new music, and once again it was released in the United States. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The title was changed to "J.B. Harrell Murder Club" the name of the detective in the game. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 The name stuck and all the sequel who released under the 'J.B. Herald' name. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 There have been games for the D.S., cell phones, that sort of thing. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 And hold Sorry, folks, but I'm going to have to pull the same stunt I did with "Ys" and say, 'Let's check out the Turbo C.D. version when we reach it in 'Chronturbo''. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 So keep "Murder Club" in the back of your mind, and we'll come back to it then. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🥇 Episode 45 Wrap Up ✨


🤖🍊🍓 There we go. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We're not actually quite done with June yet. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We have some of U.S. releases from June <EIGHTY-NINE::'89> that we'll cover next time. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 So let's do our Episode Round-Up. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Best Game I'd say "Tetris". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Maybe that's not fair since "Tetris" has already been released many times by the time Tengen put it out for the N.E.S.. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 But I'd say that this is the best version of "Tetris" for this console, so they will get the Gold medal. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 If you feel that "Tetris" should have been disqualified for some reason, then I'll say "Baseball Stars" if you're a Sports Game fan and "Destiny of an Emperor" if you like R.P.G.s. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 I was tempted to say "Little Ninja Bros", but honestly, I'd say the combat hold that game back. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 As for the Worst, I don't know. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 Stuff like "Kabushiki Doujou..." and "...Go! Go! Bowling" are, sort of, lame and boring, but it's not like they're terribly made. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 Instead of Worst Game, all go with the Most Disappointing Game and choose "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles". 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 It's not awful but Konami could have done better and certainly would do better in the future. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 "...Episode <~<FORTY-FIVE::45>~::{<FORTY-SIX::46>}>" will take us into July <NINETEEN-EIGHTY-NINE::1989>. 🍇

🤖🍊🍓 We'll be seeing more Baseball Games, a classic weirdo game from Bandai, a nice Action Adventure Game from Capcom, and a certain title that involves you rescuing the president from ninjas. 🍇🍌


🤖🍊🍓 See you then. 🍇🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# 🎞️ Episode 45 Credits ✨

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Vitamin C" ♪ by Can (Live in Paris <NINETEEN-SEVENTY-THREE::1973>)


👓🏮🍊🍓 Thank you for watching 🍋 "Chrontendo 🍋 Episode 45". 🍇🍌


👓🏮🍊Opening Music: 🍋 ♪ "UFO" ♪ by ESG 🍋 🍋 Game Info Screen Music: 🍋 ♪ "Tin Cans (Puerto Rican Remix)" ♪ by Tortoise 🍋 & 🍋 ♪ "3030" ♪ by Deltron 3030 🍋 (Contains samples of ♪ "Introit" ♪ 🍋 by William Sheller) 🍋 🍋 Ending Credits Music: 🍋 ♪ "Vitamin C" ♪ by Can (Live in Paris 1972) 


👓🏮🍊Produced by 🍋 👨🏻‍🏫 Dr. Sparkle ✨


👓🏮🍊🍓 All images and sound 🍋 contained in this video 🍋 are copyright their 🍋 original owners. 🍇🍌


👓🏮🍊🍓 Support 'Chrontendo' on Patreon. 🍇🍋 patreon.com/Chrontendo 🍌



👓🏮🍊🎇# ㊙️ Sparkle's Reprise ✨


🤖🍊🍓 And just in case anyone still has any lingering doubts It's about what a truly magical place the late <EIGHTIES::'80s> and early <NINETIES::'90s> were, I will once again present this to you. 🍇🍌


🎧🏮🍊♪ Ninja Rap ♪ by Vanilla Ice

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Go Ninja, Go Ninja, Go!" ♪. 🍇
🎧🏮🍋♪ "Go Ninja, Go Ninja, Go!" ♪. 🍇

🎧🏮🍊♪ "Go Ninja, Go Ninja, Go!" ♪. 🍇
🎧🏮🍋♪ "Go! Go! Go! Go!" ♪. 🍇🍌










